Mr. PARKS. To be an actor, a good actor, you must really feel and

experience, from the top of your head to the tip of your toes, what
you are doing. As I told you, this is probably the most difficult
morning and afternoon I have spent, and I wish that if it was at all
possible-you see, it is a little different to sit there and to sit here, and
for a moment if you could transfer places with me, mentally, and put
yourself in my place.
My people have a long heritage in this country. They fought in
the Revolutionary War to make this country, to create this Government, of which this committee is a part. I have two boys, one .13
months, one 2 weeks. Is thi's the kind of heritage that I must hand
down to them? Is this the kind of heritage that you would like to
hand down to your children? And for what purpose? Children as
innocent as I am or you are; people you already know.
I don't think I would be here today if I weren't a star, because you

know as well as I, even better, that I know nothing that I believe would
be of great service to this country. I think my career has been ruined
because of this, and I would appreciate not having to-don't present
me with the choice of either being in contempt of this committee and
going to jail or forcing me to really crawl through the mud to be an
informer, for what purpose? I don't think this is a choice at all.
I don't think this is really sportsmanlike. I don't think this is American. I don't think this is American justice. I think to do something
like that is more akin to what happened under Hitler, and what is
happening in Russia today.
I don't think this is American justice for an innocent mistake in

judgment, if it was that, with the intention behind it only of making
this country a better place in which to live. I think it is not befitting
for this committee to force me to make this kind of a choice. I don't
think it is befitting to the purpose of the committee to do this.
As I told you, I think this is probably the most difficult thing I have
done, and it seems to me it would impair the usefulness of this committee to do this, because God knows it is difficult enough to come before
this committee and tell the truth. There was another choice open to
me. I did not choose to use it. I chose to come and tell the truth.
If you do this to me, I think it will impair the usefulness of this
committee to a great extent, because it will make it almost impossible
for a person to come to you, as I have done, and open himself to you
and tell you the truth. So I beg of you not to force me to do this.
Mr. WooD. Proceed.

108

COMMUNISM

IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. T.\VENER. Mr. Parks, there was a statement you made this

morning in the course of your testimony which interested me a great
deal. This is what you said:
This is a great industry-

speaking of the moving picture industryand I don't say this only because it has been kind to me. It has a very important
job to do, to entertain people; in certain respects to call attention to certain evils,
but mainly to entertain.

Now, do you believe that the persons who are in a position to call
attention to certain evils ought to be persons who are dedicated to the
principles of democracy as we understand them in this country?
Mr. PARKS. I certainly agree with this completely.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you believe, on the other hand, that the persons

who are in those responsible positions should be people who are antagonistic to the principles of democracy and our form of government,
and who are members of a conspiracy to overthrow our Government ?
Mr. PARKS. Most assuredly I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then what is your opinion as to whether or not

members of the Communist Party should be in positions of power and
influence in the various unions which control the writing of scripts,
the actors, and various other things which we have mentioned during
the course of this hearing relating to the great industry of the moving
pictures?
Mr. PARKS. I thought I had made myself clear, my feeling about
this, that I certainly do not believe that those people should be in
any position of power to be able to direct this. Of course, I don't
believe that.
Mr. TAVENER. Or to influence the course which it takes?
Mr. PARKS. That is correct.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then we will ask your cooperation, before this

hearing is over, in helping us to ascertain those who are or have been
members of the Communist Party, for that particular purpose which
we have mentioned.
Mr. Parks, it is generally known and recognized that the Communist Party, in order to function, must raise money by various
methods. Will you tell us what you know of the methods by which
money was raised to promote the objects and purposes of the Communist Party while you were a member ?
Mr. PARKS. Well, unfortunately, I don't believe I am able to answer

that, because I don't recall any occasion of that kind of raising this

kind of money that you speak of. When I was a member of the Com-

munist Party I paid dues to it, as I told you, and rather meager
contributions. I don't believe I can help you on this, because I really
don't know.
Mr. TAVINNER. Did you take any part in fund-raising campaigns

which were engineered by the Communist Party or by organizations
known to you to be Communist-front organizations?
Mr. PARKS. I don't recall at the moment. This is like asking a man
what he did in 1941, and he says, "I don't remember." If you say to
him, "Did you go fishing up on the Oregon River?" he will say, "Yes,
yes, I did." If you would accommodate me in this way perhaps I can
answer your question.

COMMUNISM

IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

109

Mr. TAVENNER. Did you make contributions to any organizations

which you knew at the time or have known since to be cited as Communist-front organizations?
Mr. PARKS. I believe that before the Independent Artists' Committee, whatever it is called, was cited, I contributed to them $2 a month.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period of time?
Mr. PARKS. A year or so, I guess. At the time it was to my mind a

perfectly legitimate organization. It has been cited since, I believe, by
the Attorney General in his list of organizations. Others might be.
I don't recall them .at the moment.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you take part in any benefit performance, bene-

fit celebration, on behalf of Communist-front organizations?
Mr. PARKS. As an actor, Counsel, I have taken part in many bene-

fits for many organizations over the last 10 years. If you could be
more specific, perhaps I could answer better.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you taken part in any such celebration where
the proceeds would go to a Communist-front organization which you
knew had been cited as a Communist-front organization, or which you
later found out had been cited?
Mr. PARKS. I don't remember at the moment, but if you could be

more specific.
Mr. TAVENNER. No. I am asking if you recall.
Mr. PARKS. I don't recall at the moment. If you could be more
specific, perhaps I could answer better.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know anything of Communist Party plans

for raising money for various purposes in which the Communist
Party was interested?
Mr. PARKS. No; I can't honestly recall knowing about this. Again,

if you could be more specific, perhaps I could answer you more specifically, if you could give me an instance of what you want to know, or
what you are driving at.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am merely asking what you know about the raising

of Communist Party funds.
Mr. PARKS. At the moment I don't recall knowing anything about
it. As I just told you, I have appeared in many benefits over the past

few years for many organizations, and if you could be more specific
perhaps I could be more specific. I am not trying to avoid the question.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no trick question here
attempting to lead you into denial of something
Mr. PARKs. I have come here and have been as
as I can. I think the testimony will bear me out.

you all I can if you could be more specific.

through which I am
we know about.
open and aboveboard
I am willing to help

As I told you, I have

appeared at many benefits over many years.
Mr. TAVENNER. As far as you know, were any of these fund-raising
benefits conducted for the benefit of the Communist Party?
Mr. PARKS. I don't recall any at the moment. But again I say, I

have been to many benefits over many years.
Mr. TAVENNER. In your statement that you made at the beginning
of the afternoon session, you made a statement which I cannot let go
by without challenging it.

You said you were subpenaed here because

you were a star. Mr. Parks, you were subpenaed here because the
committee had information that you had knowledge about Communist
Party activities and that you had been a member.

110

COMMUNISM

IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. PARKS. I did not mean any inference )bythat, Counsel.

All I

meant was that I think yon know. even better than I, that I know
nothing of any conspiracy that is trying to overthrow this Government. You know this even better than I. And my point was that I
think if I was working in a drug store. I doubt very much whether

I would be here.
Mr. TAVENNER. We have had many people before this committee
who have been engaged in very menial forms of making a livelihood,

and that will be so in the future.
Mr. PuRKs. Please don't take that in the wrong spirit, because it
was not meant in the wrong spirit.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am glad it was not.
I did not fully understand your reference to the possible destruction
of your career by being subpenaed here. You did not mean to infer
by that that this committee was bringing you here because of any
effect it might have on your career ?
Mr. PARKS. NO, I.didn't infer that at all. What I meant, and what
I said, was that because of this, in my opinion, I have no career left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Don't you think that that question might be influ-

enced to some extent by the fullness of the cooperation that you give
the committee in a situation of this kind ?
Mr. PARKS. I have tried to cooperate with the committee in every
way that I feel that I can, but I think the damage has been done. This

is my personal opinion.
Mr. TAVENNER. Those are all the questions I have at this time, Mr.

Chairman.
Mr. WOOD. Any questions?

Mr. JAcKsox. Don't you think that more than the damage that
possibly has been done you by this committee, which, after all, is an
expression of the will of the American people and operates under
the mandate of the people-don't you think the great damage occurred
when you became a member of an organization which has been found
to advocate the overthrow of every constitutional form of government

in the world? Is this committee more to blame than your own act
in affiliating with that organization?
Mr. PARKS. As I told you, Congressman, when I was a good deal
younger than I am now, 10 years ago, I felt a certain way about
certain things. I was an idealist, I felt strongly and I still do about
the underdog, and it was for these reasons that this particular organization appealed to me at that time. I have later found that this
would not fulfill my needs. At that time, this, I don't even believe
was a mistake. It may have been a mistake in judgment. This is
debatable. But my two boys, for instance, I would rather have them
make the same mistake I did under those circumstances than not
feel like making any mistake at all and be a cow in the pasture. If

a man doesn't feel that way about certain things, then he is not a
man. The thing that I did-I do not believe that I did anything
that was wrong. Judgment, this is debatable. This I agree.
Mr. JACKSON. You say, Mr. Parks, that your association at best

was haphazard, and, in your own words, you are afraid you were
not a very good Communist.
Mr. PARKS. That is correct.
Mr. JACKSON. Upon what do you base the opinion that the people

whose names you have in your possession probably have severed their

111

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

relations with the Communist Party or are not today members of the

Communist Party ?
Mr. PARKS. In my opinion, the few people that I knew are people

like myself and feel the way that I do.
Mr. JACKSON. Well, of course, that is merely your judgment of the

matter. Have you discussed their party affiliations with those with
whom you were affiliated in the party?
Mr. PARKS. I have not, but these people I knew. and this is my

honest opinion.
as I do.

You know these people.

You know them as well

Mr. JACKSON. I will point out to you that in a recent case here in

Washington some of the highest officials in Government testified on
the stand to their honest belief that a man with whom they had been
associated had never been a member of the Communist Party, and
in no way constituted any threat to our institutions, but every man
who reads the newspapers knows how fallacious that opinion was.
I merely point out that after all, in all good faith, you might conceivably be entirely wrong as to the present status of membership
in the Communist Party of some people whose names you evidence
hesitancy about disclosing.
Mr. PARKS.. These men you speak of did not act as informers in

any sense of the word. I told you about these people. You know
who the people are. And I have told you my opinion of them. And
I have told you that I think to force me to do something like this is
not befitting this committee. I don't think the committee would
benefit from it, and I don't think this is American justice to make
me choose one or the other or be in contempt of this committee, which
is a committee of my government, or crawl through the mud for no
purpose, because you know who these people are. This is what I beg
you not to do.
Mr. JACKSON. This is also problematic, Mr. Parks.

I know who

they are, maybe you are entirely right, but I still think it is within
the province of the committee to determine how far they will go in
this respect.
Mr. PARKS. I am asking the committee not to do it.

setting myself up as a judge.

I am asking you to judge.

I am not

Mr. VELDE. I think you are wrong in assuming we know all of the

activities in which you were engaged and all the people you were
engaged in those activities with. I am satisfied you are wrong in
that, and possibly you could furnish us with a lot of information
we do not have, and I feel sure you would be willing to do that to
serve the best interests of the United States, of which you are a
citizen.
Mr. PARKS. I have told you to the best of my ability of my activities.

You say you don't know mine.
my ability of my activities.

I have tried to tell you to the best of

Mr. WooD. We will ask at this time to break in the testimony of

this witness to make an announcement concerning his release from the
subpena. I request that he not leave the jurisdiction of the committee until later this afternoon.
Mr. MANDEL. You want us around the rest of the afternoon?
Mr. WooD. Yes.
Mr. MANDEL. Thank you.

(Witness tempora-ily excused.)

112

COMMUNISM

IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Howard Da Silva.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Da Silva, will you please raise your right hand and

be sworn.
Mr. KFX.x.

Mv name is Kenny.

As you recall, we sent a wire.

disposed of before he is sworn.

I am a Los Angeles attorney.

I would ask that that motion be

Mr. WooD. The witness will be sworn.
motion.

I won't interfere with any

Mr. KENNY. The motion was to quash the subpena. If he is not
properly subpenaed, if the motion is denied, of course the record has
been made, but as it now stands there is a motion pending before
the committee that the subpena be quashed, on the ground that Mr.

Da Silva is not a witness -but rather a defendant in a proceeding
which may have the effect of depriving him of his livelihood, and as
such a defendant he cannot be called at all to testify against himself.
That is why the motion was addressed to the subpena. I suggest
the logical way to handle that would be to grant or deny the motion
to quash the.subpena, then if the motion is denied the record will be
made and the witness will be available to be sworn.
Mr. WOOD. I don't think this committee has authority to rule on a
legal question as to the subpena. We have the power of subpena, but
that is a question that will have to be raised in court at the proper time.
Mr. KENNY. If the record discloses the motion has been made--Mr. WooD. Let the record disclose that this telegram, in the nature

of a motion, has been presented to the committee and will be placed
in the record.
(The telegram above referred to is as follows:)
OHICAGO, ILL., March 20, 1951.
HON. JOHN S. WOOD,

Chairman, House Committee on Un-American Activities,
House Office Building, Washington, D. C.

DEAB SIR: Please take notice that the undersigned as counsel for Gale Sondergaard and Howard Da Silva will at the opening of their scheduled examination before you Wednesday, March 21, 1951, move to quash the subpenas previously served on each of them. This motion will be made upon the grounds that
our clients have not been subpenaed merely as witnesses but rather they occupy
the positron of defendants charged with political heresy in a proceeding which
can result in deprivation of their livelihoods. No one in such a position can be
called to the stand and compelled to testify against himself. (See first and
fifth amendments, United States Constitution. Adamson v. California (332 U. S.
46) ; Boyd v. U. S. (116 U. S. 616)). This motion presents a serious constitutional question and we request an opportunity to present oral argument in support thereof.
Respectfully submitted.
ROBERT W. KENNY AND BEN MARGOLIS, Los Angeles.

Washington, D. C., address, the Shoreham.

Mr. WooD. You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so
help you God ?
Mr. DA SILVA. I do.
TESTIMONY OF HOWARD DA SILVA, ACCOMPANIED BY ROBERT W.
