Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Collins, at this time I would like to ask you

questions regarding certain organizations which we understand you
were from time to time affiliated with.
Were you at any time a member of the Hollywood Anti-Nazi
League?
Mr. COINS.

Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Can you name any other members of the Communist

Party who were members of that league along with you?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I belonged to the Anti-Nazi League before I
became a member of the Communist Party, and never had much

influence in it. I was just a rank-and-file member. So that I wouldn't
know who was a Communist in it and who wasn't. The fact is that
the Communists in it must have been an infinitesimal fraction of the
membership, because thousands of people against Hitler were eager
members of the Anti-Nazi League.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not V. J. Jerome was
active in that organization, directly or in any indirect manner?
Mr. COLLINS. I wouldn't know that either. It was before, as I say,
my real experience.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the League of American

Writers ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; around 1938 or 1939; but outside of the Spanish
civil war I don't really remember what the issues were of the league,

and I wouldn't want to go into it. I don't remember the content of
the league's program at all, although I think it is all a part of the
public record.

The point is that anything that had to do with loyalist Spain, I
joined, as I would join today, because I believe in loyalist Spain. So
if there are any organizations like the Joint Anti-Fascist Committee,

I undoubtedly was a member of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you affiliated in any way with the Progressive

Citizens of America ?
Mr. COLLINS. It is very possible. I am not sure.
Mr. TAVENNER. Your chief activities were confined to the Commu-

nist Party itself and to the Screen Writers' Guild and the Hollywood
Writers' Mobilization, rather than to Communist-front organizations
generally; is that true ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes; I guess it is true. I mean, since I don't

really know the history of many of the organizations I joined, I would
have to go along with you in saying they are Communist-front organizations, although I am not sure in most cases. Anything that seemed
to fulfill the program that I was interested in, I would have joined.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you understand by a Commmnist-front

organization, in the experience that you had in the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it seems to me that in some cases a Communistfront organization, I couldn't give you my own definition, but I assume
'the meaning today is a front in which Communists are active or in
which they organize the basis for the committee or group.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

249

Mr. TAVENNER. Would you include those instances also in which the

Communist Party gains strong influence by infiltration of its members
.
into the group ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; if they have some influence in it I suppose you

could call it a Communist front, but there is an enormous difference
between being a Communist and belonging to two or three organizations, especially when you take them out of the context of the years
and go back to them.
I remember in a Gallup poll around 1938 that 74 or 75 percent of
the people said they favored the Loyalists over Franco, so that to
belong to an organization that was in favor of Loyalist Spain at that
time was a logical position. If you were against Hitler, you might
have joined the Anti-Nazi League, and others.

Coming up as late as the peace conferences, it seems to me there is
a mistake made when the peace conferences are labeled "Communist

fronts" and you let it go at that, because people joined the peace con-

ferences not because they were Communists, but because peace is very

alive. The way to get Communist fronts out of the way is not to
abolish them, but to have different kinds of organizations people can
belong to that will represent different issues which people believe in
very strongly.
Undoubtedly there were Communists who, for some reason or other,
did not join any of those organizations, while a man might feel that
since Communists at one time or other were associated with almost
every liberal organization in the United States, you couldn't avoid
at some time being associated with Communists.
Mr. KEAnNEY. I am very glad to hear you say that. With reference

to the signatures on the "Stockholm peace petition," don't you agree
there are a lot of fine people in this country who, because the word

"peace" was on it, signed that petition ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that is absolutely true. I read an article in the
New Yorker which said the conservative members of boroughs in

Switzerland and in France had signed it because they felt it was a
pledge of some kind, and when they heard the Russians had signed it,

they felt perhaps the Russians were pushing it along.
To say everyone who signed the petition was a Communist, would
be a serious mistake, in my opinion. The question of peace is a very
serious question.
I think also, if you go back 10 years, the situation has changed.
Take American-Russian friendship. In 1942-43 it looked like a reasonable thing. So people who belonged to that in 1942-43 would be
in a different category from people who would belong to'it now.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to read from testimony given by J. Edgar

Hoover on this subject on March 26, 1947:

For the most part, front organizations assumed the character of either a mass
or. membership organization or a paper organization. Both solicited and used
names of prominent persons. Literally hundreds of groups .and organizations
have either been infiltrated or organized primarily to accomplish the purposes
Sof promoting the interests of the Soviet Union in the United States, the promotion of Soviet war and.peace aims, the exploitation of Negroes in the United
States, work among foreign-language groups, and to secure a favorable viewpoint
toward the Communists in domestic, political, social, and economic issues.
The first requisite for front organizations is an idealistic sounding title.
Hundreds of such organizations have come into being and have gone out of existtence when their true purposes have become known or exposed while others with
high-sounding names are continually springing up.

250

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

I would like to ask you about two other organizations. Were you a
member of the People's Educational Center in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I taught a class at what was either the People's Educa-

tional Center or its equivalent. I don't know if it was called School for
Writers or what it was called, but I taught a class a couple semesters.
Paul Jarrico and I taught it.
Mr. TAVENNER. In addition to Paul Jarrico, were there others known

to you as Communist Party members who taught at that center?
Mr. COLLINS. There was a class in screen writing.

We came in on

Tuesday night and we worked out a schedule, and the students did
some work and there was discussion of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you receive any compensation for your work

in teaching ?
Mr. COLLINS. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did Mr. Jarrico ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. It was a work of love.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you a member of the Peace Mobilization

Committee?
Mr. COLIms. I never was active in it, but I might have had a
membership in it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have occasion to meet Communists from

foreign countries?
Mr. CoLLINs. I met a man who was foreign editor of the French

Communist paper, L'Humanitg, and he gave me the Duclos letter, or
what was going to be the Duclos letter, before it was printed.

And

I met an Indian railroad union official.
Mr. TAVENNER. You mean an official of the Government of India?
Mr. COLLINS. No; he was an official of the Railway Workers Union,
as I remember.
Mr. TAVENNER. In India?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. He was visiting here. He spoke about the con-

ditions in India, the living conditions of the people in India, which
are quite severe; the fact that they eat flesh, as he says, perhaps once
a year, and many millions of people are born, live, and die in the
street without ever being under shelter.
He was enormously impressed with the amount of energy Americans
must have since they eat so well, and he was dissatisfied with the

working class of America because he didn't see how they would ever
be militant men.

He had looked over the country and didn't see any

chance for a class struggle.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was discouraged about the prospect of com-

munism among the working class in America because of the good

conditions in which they worked?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

He said in relation to his own country it was

impossible. He said that in his country the people had to do something, but in the United States he despaired of their interest.
That is about it. I found him interesting and I remember the
conversation.
Mr. TAVENNER. I want to question you a little further about your

experience in the Communist Party. In our study of communism
in various areas of the United States and in various fields, such as
labor, we have found that a very exact type of discipline is required
within the Communist Party. Was that true in Hollywood?

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

251

Mr. COLLINs. No. I would say that the discipline of the intellectuals in Hollywood is quite gentle. It is probably not possible to
handle these people on the same basis as perhaps workers in other
industries are handled. In the main, a man in Hollywood feels a
very gentle party hand. There is a feeling in the party, anyway, that
intellectuals are unstable, and I think Sartre puts it very well when
he says, "Thinking brings them in and thinking can take them out."
The fact it comes out of thinking and not absolute need is the thing
that makes it not possible to put such a clamp on the membership as
may be true in other places.
On the other hand, I discovered when I started to disagree violently
I was not popular. But I could disagree as I did in the Maltz controversy, where I supported Maltz, without anyone discussing it with
me or any discipline at all. There is a fair freedom. I don't think
the party could keep the people if there wasn't. But on basic questions they have to accept the policy of the party. On small points
there can be arguments and disagreements.
It also depends on how strong the party is. In 1946 and 1947 they
were very gentle, because their position was poor and they didn't
want to get rid of people who disagreed; but in the days they were
going well, I think they would have asked a man who was difficult
to leave. Later on they didn't like to lose anybody.
Mr. TAVENNER. YOU state that in major matters of policy you were
required to carry out party lines and instructions?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. In a thing like the German-Russian Pact, you
would have to accept the policy of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of any instance in which party discipline was attempted of any member of the cell or branch to which
you were attached ?
Mr. COLLINS. You might call it discipline; it came out of the Duclos
letter. After the Duclos letter, it revised the Communist Party's
thinking of how postwar America would be. Browder thought there
might be some peaceful transition to socialism, and so on. Mr. Duclos
apparently didn't agree with this, and sent a letter to the American
Party saying that Browder had strayed from the Marxist position,
and it caused a great furor in the party.
This was one of the things which I suppose was the turning point
in my party life.
Mr. VELDE. Will you place a date on that incident ?
Mr. COLLIS. That was June 1945. The situation was that a man
who loved Browder on Monday hated him on Thursday. Once the
national committee of the Communist Party said he was no good,
the chorus filled the room. The party indulged in what was termed
"self-criticism." I could not quite accept the self-criticism. It seemed
absurd, since in order to have been a member of the party previously
it was necessary to go along with the Browder position, and in order
to stay in the party subsequently it was necessary to change that position and so therefore the confession of error was not individual but
mass, and as such seemed to me to have no value.
The whole situation was reviewed, and John Howard Lawson was
reviewed as well, and he was relieved of his position of responsibility.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was that position at that time ?
Mr. COLLNS. Whatever it was, in fact it was the leadership of the
section. The leadership was then given to other people, I think to

252

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Waldo Salt and Charles Glenn, and much to our surprise we discovered that Jack Lawson was the liaison between the county and the section, having been given the job by the county, which made him once
again the leader of the section.
Mr. TAVENNER. Let us be certain that we get that in an understandable way. As a result of the Duclos letter, there was initiated
a proceeding to oust him from his position of leadership?
Mr. COLLINS. There was a review of the entire leadership, nation-

ally. Then in all the local committees this presumably took place.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who initiated this action?
Mr. COLLNS. In a new committee, I think, each branch had one

representative.
Mr. TAVENNER. What part did you take in it?
Mr. COLLINS. I was the representative from my branch.

Another

committee had prepared this document on Lawson after talking to
him. They prepared documents on others, too. I went downtown
when Nemmy Sparks was in charge and presented my position regarding Lawson, and Nemmy Sparks listened to it quite coldly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was Nemmy Sparks ?
Mr. COLLINS. Organizer in Los Angeles County. He listened
closely and I was subsequently stripped of my epaulets and I held no

position in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. After taking action which you thought removed

Lawson from the position he then held, he was placed in the same
position, though known under a different title?
lMr. COLLNS. Yes.

As I look back, I think Nemmy Sparks was

right in supporting Lawson instead of supporting me, from the Communist Party point of view.
Mr. TAVENNER. Are there any other instances concerning Commu-

nist Party discipline ?
Mr. COLLINS. Not that I remember.

I think a great many people like me were profoundly disturbed by
the events following the Duclos letter-the Maltz incident was after
that-and I know people who are either out or thinking of going out
of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you repeat that, please?
Mr. COLLINS. There were a good many people after the Duclos letter

and after the Maltz incident who were dissatisfied and wanted to get
out of the party. Some have gotten out and some have not.
It is hard to get out, not because anybody tells you you can't butt
because you have associations of many years, and you have liberal
question that you believed in together, and probably still do, and you
have many hours of energy and time invested, and it is only when

issues become sharp that decisions are made.
Mr. TAVENNER. It requires more courage to get out than get in?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know. I think it takes something to get out.

I don't know what it is.
Mr. TAVENNER. You were in a position to observe the various
switches in the Communist Party line during the period you were a
member. Will you give the committee the benefit of your knowledge
regarding certain outstanding instances of Communist Party switches?
Mr. COLLINS. One of the main switches prior to the Duclos letter

was the Nazi-Soviet pact. Prior to the Nazi-Soviet pact, the Soviet

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

253

Union's position of collective security against Nazi Germany was a
good position and had my support. The Soviet Union also helped
Loyalist Spain.
When the Nazi-Soviet pact occurred there was great consternation
on the part of many people. It didn't seem reasonable for this pact
to have been made. The explanation was given to me by Sam Ornitz,
the great explainerMr. TAVENNER. IS he one of the 10 who appeared before this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. I believe you have already identified him as a mem-

ber of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. COLLINS. Ornitz explained right away what was subsequently

the position taken by the party, that this was a delaying tactic on the
part of Soviet Russia because they were not prepared at that time
to go to war.
It was about June 21, 1941, whell the Soviet Union was attacked
by Nazi Germany.
Mr. TAVENNER. What propaganda efforts were made during that

period to support the various lines of the Communist Party ?

Mr. COLLINS. I don't remember that we did. I remember the slogan,
"The Yanks are not Coming," and so on. A lot of organizations were
smashed during that period.

Next was the Finland question. The Finland question did do a

lot of harm to the Communists so far as mass organizations and so on.
What had happened when Germany attacked Soviet Russia was
explained again by Sam Ornitz in a social gathering, and he explained

it by saying it was now a good war, because the entrance of the Soviet
Union had changed the character of the war. Before then it was a.
bad war. Now it was a good war.
Mr. TAVENNER. This individual took the position it was a good war

between Russia and Germany, but a bad war between the United
States and Germany
Mr. COLLINS. At that time the United States was not officially in
the war.
The last switch was the switch surrounding the Duclos letter, and

it was the switch that brought about my exit, which I will admit took.
me a long time. It took me a long time to get in and it took me a long
time to get out.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any change in direction about the use of

names for branches after the Duclos letter?
Mr. COLLINS. I also recall that a cute instance was that the branches

were to, take the names of Communists who were heroes, but it was
explained they should be dead.
Mr. TAVENNER. Dead Communists ?
Mr. COLLINS. Dead Communists, because, as in the case of Browder,
you never could tell. Therefore they were given names of dead Communists.
I was going to go into the question about the Screen Writers' Guild.

We had no fraction meetings and had to rely to some degree on Lawson's leadership on the guild board.

254

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

This was the period the policy had changed from a no-strike policy
to a support of the strike. There was a tremendous amount of shillyshallying, so that when I got to the board I didn't know how I would
vote. Lawson made a speech, and then we voted. For the first time
I was getting very uncomfortable with this kind of procedure.
Mr. TAVENNER. In that connection, the Communist Party has made
an effort to claim it is democratic in the conduct of its business. Are
you commenting now upon that claim of democratic type of action ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it was democratic in the sense that if we did
discuss it there would be general agreement, presumably, and if you
disagreed you went with the majority.
To go back to this, Dudley NicholsMr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. No. Spoke for support of the secretaries. We beat
him down. We had a no-strike policy. Six months later John Howard Lawson was saying to the Screen Writers' Guild board that we
should support the strike. And Frank Partos, also on the board, said,
"Please, I ask you, are we saying what we said 6 months ago."
I found it was hard to take. In 1947 I decided I was not going to
run for the board. I wanted to withdraw. I must say the party was
not against my not running as I had disobeyed several directives.
I think that covers the switches.
Mr. TAVENNER. That all led up to about the time you terminated.
your relationship with the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. In 1947 I was subpenaed to come here to Washington
before this committee. I found myself with a group of Communists
and non-Communists. I found I didn't have the guts to break with
men I knew and liked personally. I went to New York.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your purpose in going to New York?
Mr. COLLINS. It was to get out of political activity. It was not the
courageous thing to do; but I did it.
Mr. TAVENNER. That is, to break with those you had been associated
with in the Communist Party.
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I came back at Christmas time in 1947 and wap
asked for my dues for the year and I refused, but I didn't refuse on
a clear-cut basis. I kind of weasled out of it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who demanded the payment of the dues
Mr. COLLINS. Nobody demanded it. Jarrico suggested it, and I said
no.

In 1948, toward the end of 1948, I came back-no, it was about the
middle of 1949 that I came back. When I came back Jarrico asked
me whether I was going to come back to the party, and for the first
time I said no. I still did not explain my position completely. I said
no I wasn't. This state of affairs lasted until 1950.
In 1950 I was beginning to be extremely uncomfortable with my
position, which was that I was considered a Communist by almost all
of Hollywood, and I was considered a renegade by my ex-associates.
Also, I had the fear, which became a nightmare, that it the event of
a war with the Soviet Union I would be considered a friend of the
Soviet Union.
By that time I had made steps to being anti-Soviet, in the sense that
I did not believe the Soviet's presentation of the state of the world,
nor did I believe it was a paradise. I had a real fear that I would be

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

255

considered, in the event of such a war, a friend of the Soviet Union,
when actually I was an enemy.
Accordingly, I went in February 1950 to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation with a note in which I said I had been a Communist,
was one no longer, wanted my loyalty to the United States understood, but at that time I didn't wish to discuss my former associates.
They honored that. We discussed the workings of the party, however.
Mr. TAVENNER. Have you engaged in any Communist Party activi-

ties since your break with the party in 1947 to 1949 ? I think the
break occurred during that period ?
Mr. COLLINS. I did do what could be called, I suppose, Communist

activity, although I did not think of it as such at that time. I participated in the organization of a peace meeting in 1948. I also
signed for personal reasons, whenever I could, such as the amicus
curiae brief, for men with whom I had been associated. As far as I

recall, that is about it. I did go along with the peace movement for a
certain length of time. I went to the peace conference at the Waldorf
Astoria Hotel, and went to Madison Square Garden and listened to the
speeches. I remember those things.
Mr. TAVENNER. Other than the things you have mentioned, have

you engaged in any other Communist Party activity?

Mr. COLLINS. I have engaged in no Communist Party activity at

all, nor do I intend to.

Mr. TAVENNER. You consider that your break with the party is
definite and final?
Mr. COLLINS. I consider it irrevocable, and I imagine the party

does too.

Mr. TAVENNER. When was the subpena to appear here before this

committee served upon you, do you recall?
Mr. COLLINS. About 5 weeks ago, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. The subpena shows the date February 28, 1951.
Mr. COLLINS. That is probably right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Has any effort been made, since the service of that

subpena upon you, to dissuade you from making a full disclosure to
this committee of all you know regarding communism?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was one effort made; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee about it?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a couple weeks ago, or 10 days ago, I re-

ceived a phone call from Paul Jarrico, who said he would like to see
me. I asked him to come over, which he did, after dinner.
He said he understood I had made some arrangements with this committee, and I should be careful with such arrangements. I don't
think he realized the depths of my perfidy at this point.
He asked if I would give my personal assurance that I would not

give any names. He understood I was out of the party, but he wanted
my personal assurance that I would not give any names. I didn't
give that assurance.
We then had a long political discussion. Paul Jarrico feels the
justice of his position, and he went over the situation that he believes

the Soviet Union is devoted to the interests of all people and is peaceloving as well.
I said'to him, "It is not for me.
not for me."

It may be a fine country, but it is

256

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

He said, "How can you be so sure ?"
I said, "I can be sure because I was in the Communist Party almost

10 years, and having lived through that I can tell that is not the kind

of country I would like to live in."
I looked at my watch and it was a quarter of 12, after 4 hours of
discussion, and he said, "I think on the basis of 14 years of friendship
I have the right to ask for your personal assurance'that you will not
give any names."
I said, "I will give you my personal assurance that I will not give
any names if you will give me your personal assurance that in the
event of a war between the United States and the Soviet Union you
will do nothing to help the Soviet Union."
Paul said, "You know my answer to that." He didn't explain the
answer, but is was that if it was an aggressive war of the United States

he would not support it.
I said, "I am not interested in whether it is aggressive. I want your
personal assurance that if there is war between this country and the

Soviet Union you will do nothing to help the Soviet Union."
Since he could not give me this assurance, I would not give him mine,
and since we would not lie to each other, we had no further conversation.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have no further questions.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Walter.
Mr. WALTER. In these days of disclosures of disloyalty, it is re-

freshing to find someone who has the courage to make a contribution
to the security of the United States, and I trust you have made an
example for other people who must by this time know that the aims of

the United States are for peace.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Doyle.
Mr. DOYLE. I have quite a few questions, but in view of the short

time remaining, I wish to ask the witness only one or two short ones.
Have you ever had time, or have you ever read, the law under which
this committee operates? Have you ever had that called to your attention ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO, I don't think so.
Mr. DOYLE. Let me read it to you.
The Committee on Un-American Activities, as a whole or by subcommittee, is
authorized to make from time to time investigations of (1) the extent, character,
and objects of un-American propaganda activities in the United States (2) the
diffusion within the United States of subversive and un-American propaganda
that is instigated from foreign countries or of a domestic origin and attacks
the principle of the form of government as guaranteed by our Constitution, and
(3) all other questions in relation thereto that would aid Congress in any necessary remedial legislation.

Have you any suggestion to Congress as to any remedial legislation

which might be considered fairly within our Constitution to meet this
problem of subversive misconduct and un-American activities?
Mr. COLLINS. I can't say I have.

That is a field way outside my

knowledge and experience.
Mr. DOYLE. What is your answer to this question: Do you feel,

then, that this committee, functioning as it has, say with you today,
and as you have known it to function by written report and by hearsay,
is serving a valuable function to meet this problem

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

257

I
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it has served a valuable function as far as

am concerned in that it has given me an opportunity to clear myself,
and it gives that possibility to other people. Insofar as its other activities, I still could not comment on it because I am not familiar
enough with it.
Mr. DoYLE. I call your attention to the common understanding
of term "subversive" and the technical definition of the term "subvert." I took occasion to look it up several days ago, and it means,
"To overturn from the foundation; to overthrow; to ruin utterly;
to destroy; also, to upset, uproot, or the like."
Is it your opinion that the Communist Party of the United States,
as you knew it when you were a member of it, was favoring the subversive destruction of the constitutional form of government as we
know it in this country ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I suppose in the sense that it favors the Soviet
regime, it favors the destruction of the Constitution, but insofar as
my activities were concerned, I could scarcely say that is true. The
activities I was engaged in until the time I left were not disloyal
to the United States. They may have been misguided, but disloyal
they were not. Since the aim eventually is a Soviet state, that certainly
would not be constitutional government as we have it.
Mr. DOYLE. Thank you very much. I get the difference. In other
words, your experience had no such purpose ?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. DOYLE. Whereas the purpose of the Communist Party of the
United States, as I take it from your last statement, is to set up a
Soviet form of government in the United States, in the world?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. But it is a long step between an eventual goal
and possibilities. In other words, the people who become Communists, at least in my time, didn't join because the Communists were
going to overthrow our form of government by force and violence.
Mr. DOYLE. Was there any change later ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. Now, because of the worsened conditions, no one

can be on the side of the United States and the Communists at the same
time. During the earlier period there didn't seem to be a divergence
between the position of Soviet Russia and of the United States, not
until 1946, when the cold war became sharper.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Velde.
Mr. VELDE. Due to the shortness of time I just wanted to take the
opportunity to thank Mr. Collins for coming before the committee
and answering questions frankly and openly, as it appears to me, and
giving this valuable information to the committee as to the techniques
of the Communist Party in organizing the underground, and I hope
this will serve as an example to others called before the committee.
Mr. WooD. General Kearney.
Mr. KEARNEY. I want to add my personal thanks to the witness for
coming here and testifying today.
Mr. WooD. Mr. Jackson.
Mr. JACKSON. In all, how many active members of the Communist

Party did you know in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I knew, I suppose, about 20, but I understood that
there were many, many more. Mr. JACKSON. What would your best estimate be as to membership
at its peak during the war ?

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. COLLINS. Several hundred.
Mr. JACKSON. Several hundred. And of those of whom you have
personal knowledge, how many have broken with the party so far?
Mr. COLLINS. About one-fourth.
Mr. JACKSON. About 25 percent?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. JACKSON. Have broken with the party ?

Mr. COLLINS. Broken in various degrees. Some have broken in
that they don't go to meetings, and some have broken because they
don't believe in it.
Mr. JACKSON. In varying degrees, 75 percent might be considered
to belong actively or to be in the fellow-traveler classification ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. In the event of a real show-down it is hard to
say how many would stay. I have detected signs of disturbance in
people in whom I never detected it before.
Mr. JACKSON. I join with other members of the committee in saying
I feel you not only have rendered a service to yourself, but I believe
you have rendered a distinct service to the country.
Mr. WOOD. Mr. Potter.
Mr. POTTER. You stated that if you had appeared before the com-

mittee in 1947 you would not have testified ?
Mr. COLLINS. I would have taken, the line taken by the other
members.
Mr. POTTER. What was the reason for that?
Mr. COLLINS. It would be because at that time it seemed to me that
purely on American democratic constitutional grounds there was a
question of the propriety of asking a man his political beliefs. Without gong into the question of its propriety today, there has been a
marked change in the world situation since 1947, and there has been
as great a change in me. It is hard to tell where one thing begins

and the other ends.
Mr. POTTER. That is all. You have been a very willing witness.
Mr. WooD. There has been testimony indicating that individuals

have been approached on the proposition of being passive members
of the party, contributing to it in the form of dues or otherwise, but

not taking active part. Do you know of any such approach ?
Mr. COLLINS. No.

That would have been a recent development,

when people might feel it is too hot, or because they might have slight
disagreements, but would still be willing to contribute money. But
I would say that when one leaves the party, as has been said, they
start out a little ways and then they go a long ways. Once they
live in a different world, it is very hard for them to go back.
Mr. WooD. I join with other members of the committee in ex-

pressing appreciation for your cooperation and for the very frank
and full manner in which you have given information, and unless the
committee determines at some future time to ask your appearance, you
will be excused, and the committee stands adjourned until 10 o'clock
tomorrow morning.
(Thereupon, at 4: 30 p. m. on Thursday, April 12, 1951, an adjournment was taken until Friday, April 13, 1951, at 10 a. m.)

COMMUNIST INFILTRATION OF HOLLYWOOD MOTIONPICTURE INDUSTRY-PART 1
FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1951
UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON UN-AMERICAN ACTIVITIES,

Washington, D. C.
PUBLIC HEARING

The Committee on Un-American Activities met pursuant to adjournment at 10:10 a. m. in room 226, Old House Office Building,
Hon. John S. Wood (chairman) presiding.
Committee members present: Representatives John S. Wood, Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H. Velde
(appearance as noted in transcript), Bernard W. Kearney, Donald
L. Jackson, and Charles E. Potter.
Staff members present: Frank S. Tavenner, Jr., counsel; Thomas
W. Beale, Sr., assistant counsel; Louis J. Russell, senior investigator;
William A. Wheeler and Courtney E. Owens, investigators; John
W. Carrington, clerk; and A. S. Poore, editor.
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order.

Let the record show that there are present the following members
of the committee: Mr. Walter, Mr. Moulder, Mr. Doyle, Mr. Kearney,
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Potter, and Mr. Wood, a quorum of the full committee.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to call as the first witness Mr. Waldo
Salt.
Mr. WooD. Will you raise your right hand and be sworn, please?

You solemnly swear the evidence you give this committee shall be
the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth ?
Mr. SALT. I do.
Mr. WooD. Have a seat.

TESTIMONY OF WALDO SALT, ACCOMPANIED BY HIS COUNSEL,
