Mr. TAVENNER. You are Mr. Richard J. Collins ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. When and where were you born
Mr. COLLINS. New York City, July 20, 1914.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present place of residence
Mr. COLLINS. 123 North Swall Drive, Los Angeles 48, Calif.
Mr. TAVENNER. What is your present occupation ?
Mr. COLLINS. Screenwriter.
SMr. TAVENNER. Will you state for the committee, briefly, your edu-

cational background?

Mr. CoLLINs. I went to Browning School in New York. I went

to the Lyce Janson de Sailly, Paris. I went back to Browning; then
217

218

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

to Beverly Hills High School; and a winter and a half at Stanford
University. That is about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. How have you been employed since the completion
of your educational training ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I worked as a clerk at Bloomingdale's in 1935,

I think it was. Then as an outside reader for Columbia Pictures in
New York. Then junior writer for Twentieth-Century Fox the end of
1936 and 1937. Then for Universal, Selznick's, Paramount, about
1939, for a year. Then for RKO for a short time. Universal for about
6 months. M-G-M about 3 years, I guess that was 1941 through 1944,
no, 1942 through 1949. Then James B. Cassidy, an independent. Then
Twentieth-Century-Fox again. Then United States Pictures. Then
Warner Bros. Then for Robert Rossen Productions. Then for Roberts Productions. Then for Sidney Buchman Enterprises. Then
again for Roberts Productions.
(Representative Harold H. Velde entered hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. IS that where you are now employed?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what particular
screen plays you have worked on in the past 3 or 4 years ?
Mr. COLLINs. I haven't worked on any produced screen plays in the
last 3 or 4 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. What were the last?
Mr. COLLINS. They go way back-to 1943 or 1944, to As Thousands
Cheer and Song of Russia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where were you living in 1935 ?
Mr. COLLINS. In New York.

Mr. TAVENNER. And how long did you live there at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. About a year, I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you come to New York from the west coast?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Had you been employed on the west coast prior to

that time, or had you been in school?
Mr. COLLINs. I had been in school.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your reason for coming to New York

Mr. COLLINS. My family moved to New York and I moved with

them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you continue any course of training while in

New York at that time?
Mr. COLLINS. I went to the New Theater League School in New

York. The New Theater League School was a theater school, and,
unlike most schools of the theater, it didn't cost very much to go to it.
It was a left-wing theater group, and it was kind of active, open to
young people, and there was a great deal of' experimentation in it of

various-kinds, and I was pretty excited by it and went to school there
about 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have a scholarship ?
Mr. COLLINS. Toward the end of the time I think I did. I used

about a month of it and then came back to California.

Mr. TAVENNER. While you were in attendance at that school, did

anything occur as a result of which you became a member of the Young
Communist League?

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

219

Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I signed an application blank for this scholarship and said I was interested in the Young Communist League, and
someone, I don't remember who, got in touch with me, and I went to
one meeting of the Young Communist League in New York. That was
the full extent of my experience in the Young Communist League.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then you went to the west coast after the completion of that training?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Upon arriving on the west coast, did you resume
your affiliation with the Young Communist League or with any Communist Party groups or individuals?
Mr. COLLINS. No, I didn't get in touch with the Young Communist
League, but I was introduced to a class in Marxism. I don't remember
the nature of the class. It could have been political economy or somethink like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us how that occurred.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was a man that I met who had been in
Russia and was very enthusiastic about it. His name was Budd
Schulberg.
Mr. WooD. I didn't get the name.
Mr. COLLINS. Budd Schulberg.
Mr. VELDE. Will you spell that, please?
Mr. COLLINS. It is S-c-h-u-l-b-e-r-g, I think. He had been, as I
say, in Russia, and was very interested and excited by what he saw,
and he introduced me to a class which met in a small frame house
behind somebody's house. I think the house belonged to a man named
Mullins. What his first name was, I don't know. Mullins was a man
who used to go around studios with books and pictures. I stayed in
this class a while, was interested, and that was the extent of the class.
Mr. TAVENNER. It was a study group on Marxism ?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right, and I imagine they were mainly nonCommunists. It was a class, I presume, to bring people closer to the
Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. About how many composed the class ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think four or five.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember the names?
Mr. COLLINS. No, outside of Mullins I don't remember. I don't even
remember the teacher's name.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you come in contact with any of them in connection with Communist Party activities at any later date?
Mr. COLLINS. No.
Mr. TAVENNER. At that time how were you employed?
Mr. COLLINS. I am not sure that I was employed at that particular
moment, or, rather, that particular 6 months.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was your first employment?

Mr. COLLINS. My first employment was as a junior writer, Twentieth
Century-Fox. That didn't occur until late in 1936, I think about the
last month of 1936 or beginning of 1937.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the approximate date of your arrival in
Hollywood?
Mr. COLLINS. The summer of 1936. So, therefore, you see, I started
this class before I was employed.
Mr. TAVENNER. After you had been in this class a period of time,
did you become associated with a group of writers ?

220

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. COLmuS. Well, no. That came, I think, probably, out of the
fact that I went to work as a writer. I did then become associated
with a group of writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell us what the occasion of that association was.
Mr. COLuLs. In order to tell you that I would have to tell you
something about the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Very well.
Mr. Co.LLIN. The Screen Writers' Guild, as I understand it-this
was before I came to Hollywood-was smashed by the Screen Playwrights, a right-wing group of writers. The Screen Playwrights
broke the guild up on the charge that it was becoming dominated by
the Authors' League, which, according to Screen Playwrights, was a
Red-dominated group. So the cry of eastern domination was the
thing that broke up the Screen Writers' Guild.
In order to break it up the Screen Playwrights, the right-wing
group, had full support of the studios. With the pressure of the
studios and the fear of blacklisting, the Screen Writers' Guild was
smashed, but the majority of writers didn't support the Screen Playwrights and weren't very happy with them. The Screen Playwrights
got a contract as a company union, and, therefore, they were the representatives of the writers in Hollywood at the time.
There was a group of people, as I understood it at the time and as
I believe today, Conununists and non-Communists, who met under
the leadership or guidance of V. J. -Jerome. And I think it is interesting, because I have seen it happen since, that the right wing in this
case, the extreme right wing, made it possible for the left wing, for the
Communists, particularly, to take advantage of a situation that already existed. As a matter of fact, unless a situation exists, I don't
think Communists or anybody else can take advantage of it.
This group met for the purpose of reconstituting the Screen Writers
Guild. And I think I ought to make it very clear that the reconstitution of the Screen Writers' Guild was a dangerous thing at that time
because the fear of blacklisting was very strong.
The group had met before I came. How long, I don't know. They
met for about 3 months afterwards. As I remember, these meetings
were very long, very drawn-out. Tremendous arguments took place
in them, although I don't remember what about, and usually V. J.
won, because he had more energy than anybody else.
Mr. TAVENNER. By "V. J." you are speaking of V. J. Jerome?
Mr. CourNs. Yes. He was able to outlast us all so far as his arguments were concerned. He was the most persistent of all of us.
Mr. TAVENNER. These meetings to which you refer were meetings
composed of persons who were both Communists and non-Communists ?
Mr. CoLLins. That is correct.
Mr. TA*ENNER. And, as I understand, they were meeting under the
direction and guidance of V. J. Jerome ?
Mr. COLLINs. The point is that the writers had no background for
organizing a union, and presumably V. J. Jerome had a lot of experience along this line, and he was the logical man to lead the
organization, especially in view of the pressure from the employers.
This was something that V. J. knew something about, so he was the
logical man for people to turn to.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

221

Mr. TAVENNER. Would you say the group was organized because
of the efforts of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. You mean the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, it was.

The Screen Writers' Guild, as I remem-

ber it, I think that John Howard Lawson took V. J. Jerome's place,
and after he took his place there were a series of 8 or 9 meetings
called at various people's houses the same night, and to each of these
meetings 20 or 30 writers were invited, and therefore the Screen
Writers' Guild was organized the same night with about 200 people,
enough writers so that the fear of reprisals from the producers could
in some degree be abated.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am not certain I understand clearly the method

used to get the Screen Writers' Guild organized through the separate
meetings you spoke of. What do you mean by separate meetings, and
what was the purpose of holding separate meetings?
Mr. COLLINS. I find it difficult to remember what the purpose was,

but I presume the idea was to have small enough meetings so that
there wouldn't be a great deal of publicity about it, which there certainly would be if you pulled 200 writers together. So instead of
having 200 writers meet at one point, they came together the same
night at different houses. With each group I imagine there was one
who- had been in the meetings with V. J. Jerome, who knew what
the demands were and therefore was able to present something to
reform the Screen Writers' Guild.

Mr. TAVENNER. Were you one of the group and therefore one of the

initial members of the reorganized Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. COLINs. Oh, yes; that is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I am going to question you about this further later,

but I want at this moment to ask you a question as to whether or not
the Communist influence within the Screen Writers' Guild, which
resulted in its reorganization, has continued on to the present time
with the same force and effect ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, no. I think one of the things that I was proud

of in those days as a Communist, and that the other Communists were
proud of, I suppose, was that we had recognized the Screen Writers'
Guild, and that the majority of the screen writers wanted the Screen
Writers' Guild, and therefore a noncompany union that really reflected
the desires of the screen writers was set up. In subsequent years it is
true the Communists had something to say about how the guild was
run, because there were Communists on the board and in the guild, and
because the line they' pursued was not too far from what the members
wanted, they were able to exert some influence. This influence has been
pretty much finished since 1947.
Mr. TAVENNER. In your opinion, do I understand that the influence

of the Communist Party in the guild has been dissipated?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I would say that is true since the 1947 election,
which occurred after the first hearings here, or during the hearings.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will ask you more questions about that later. You
have told us about the reorganization of the guild under the leadership
of V. J. Jerome. You mentioned the name of John Howard Lawson.
To what extent did he participate in the management or the operation
of the guild, and how did he figure in the picture

222

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. COLLINS. John Howard Lawson is an extremely forceful man
on his own, as a speaker and as a man who spreads opinions. For a
great many years he had a great deal of weight with the membership of
the guild. He was also, I think, accepted, whether he was in all cases
officially or not, as a leader or the leader of the Communist Party in
Hollywood; so, therefore, he had some influence. And he had influence because of his own personality, courage, intellectual capacity, and
so on.

Mr. TAVENNER. Did he supplant any other person in leadership in
the Communist Party in Hollywood ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know what the leadership of the Communist
Party was prior to Lawson's coming to Hollywood, because I didn't
come into the party until about 1938.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was V. J. Jerome's status in the party, as far
as you know, from information you obtained then or later ?
Mr. COLLINS. As of that time I understood he was a representative

of the Central Committee of the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. You are speaking now of the national organization
of the Communist Party of the United States ?
Mr. COLLINS. What is now called the National Committee of the

American Communist Party.
Mr. TAVENNER. At the time that you took part in the reorganization
of the Screen Writers' Guild, were you a member of the Communist
Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO.

Mr. TAVENNER. Did you subsequently become a member ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee the circumstances
which led up to it and the manner in which you became a member?
Mr. COLLINS. I understand that in most cases there was a formal
date of entrance into the Communist Party, but in my case this was
not so. What happened was that I was asked to come to a meeting,
which could have been a class or a meeting of this committee on the
guild, and it turned out to be a branch meeting, or whatever it was
called in those days, of the Communist Party. I think it was called
no objection to being there. As a matter of fact, I think I was quite
not objection to being there. As a matter of fact, I think I was quite
satisfied to be there, and I never questioned it. I was a member by
having come to that meeting. Subsequently I found out that it was
intended that I be asked, but somehow I never was, but it all worked
out all right in the end.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was instrumental in having you attend that
meeting?
Mr. COLLINS. It could have been Budd Schulberg. I think he was
still in the party at that time. Or it might have been Ring Lardner.
Mr. TAVENNER. It might have been Ring Lardner ?
Mr. COLLINS. Ring Lardner, Jr.

Mr. TAVENNER. Were both of those individuals, Budd Schulberg
and Ring Lardner, Jr., members of the Communist Party cell to which
you were assigned?
Mr. COLLINS. That is right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What do you know about the continued Communist
Party activities of Budd Schulberg, if anything?

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE, INDUSTRY

223

Mr. COLLINS. It is my understanding he left the party right after

There was very, very
his book came out, What Makes Sammy Run
sharp criticism of this book in the party and in the party press, and
I think he was handled rather ferociously, and he left the party, as
I understand, at that time. I haven't seen him for many, many years,
but my understanding was that he had quit at that point, whenever
it was, 1939 or 1940, I don't remember exactly, but it was about 6

months after What Makes Sammy Run ? came out.

Mr. TAVENNER. Did Ring Lardner, Jr., continue in his Communist

Party relationship for a period of time?

Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I would say up to 1946 or so. After that, I don't

know what happened to him.

Mr. TAVENNER. You remained in the party until approximately

what time ?

Mr. COLLINS. I refused to pay dues at the end of 1947 for the year,

and I left for New York in 1948.

Mr. TAVENNER. I don't want to go into the details at this time.
Mr. COLLINS. I see. Just as there was not a formal date of en-

trance, there was even a less formal date of exit.

Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee the names of persons,

in addition to V. J. Jerome and John Howard Lawson, who were active
in the reorganization of the Screen Writers' Guild?
Mr. COLLINS. There were many writers active in the reorganization

of the Screen Writers' Guild.
Mr. TAVENNER. Possibly I didn't make my question clear. I mean
those who were known to you to be members of the Communist Party.
Mr. CoLLINs. At that time there was practically no one known to

me to be a member of the Communist Party, because I didn't join the
Communist Party until after the Screen Writers' Guild was reorganized. A great many of those who met in those reorganization
meetings I never heard of being members of the party. I would have
to discuss that as of a later period.
Mr. TAVENNER. I will defer my questions about members of the
Communist Party until a later period in your testimony. You were a
member of the Communist Party for some years. How frequently
did you attend meetings during the period of your membership ?
Mr. COLLINS. I attended, speaking of all meetings, not only meet-

ings of the party, which were maybe once or twice a week, but meetings of whatever organizations I believed to-I attended 4 or 5 a week
for 3 years, then about 3 a week. I figure it comes to close to 5,000
hours. I had about 5,000 hours of meetings, and I think at this point
that is enough for a lifetime. I don't know that I will have to go to
any more.
Mr. TAVENNER. How frequently did you attend strictly Communist

Party meetings ?

Mr. COLLINS. It would depend.

It might be once a week; it might

be twice a week; it.might be only once every 2 weeks. The branch
met every 2 weeks, and I think during the war once every 2 weeks
would be it.

Mr. TAVENNER. In the period of your membership, and in the important field in which you were engaged in connection with the Communist Party, I should think you would be in a position to tell this
committee what, in your own opinion, was the real purpose of the
Communist Party in organizing itself within Hollywood?

224

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. COLuxs. Well, of course I can't speak officially about that

since I was not responsible for the decision to organize it, but I would
assume that, first, the Communists have a certain respect for cultural

workers, like writers and so on, and therefore being in a field in which

there were a great many writers, some with some prestige in the
country, would be one reason.
Then I think there was a feeling that the content of films could
be influenced to some degree, that there might be films on the question
of discrimination against minorities, and so on. These films were
made later, but I think when they were made, Communists had nothing
to do with them.
Then, also, there was a feeling they could stop or abate to some
degree anti-Communist films. Actually, I don't think this was necessary, because anti-Communist films have had an enormous record of
being unsuccessful, like Red Salute, and so on, but there was a feeling
this could be abated to some degree.
Then I think also there could have been some feeling that it was
a part of the country in which a certain amount of money could be
achieved as far as the party was concerned, on the basis of people
who were workers and yet made larger salaries than are made
generally.
But I think that there was a real feeling that the concentration of
frustrated or partially frustrated artists or creative people would be
useful in the sense of prestige and many other things, and that these
people would make a valuable contribution to whatever aims the
Communist Party had at various times.
Mr. TAVENNER. I would like to ask questions more or less in detail

about each of those reasons which you have assigned as being the
purposes of the Communist Party as far as you were able to judge
from your experience.
You spoke of the use of influence with writers of prestige. Can
you give us' any instances in which the Communist Party did exercise
its influence in the direction of a writer's work ?
Mr. COLLr~s. It is very hard to answer that question, because dur-

ing the late thirties and the war period, the whole period, which was
a period of social change, I think that the Communists worked together, and most writers, since it is part of their field to look ahead,

were concerned with the future, and that certain questions the Communists used as day-to-day questions, such as the question of race
discrimination, were of concern to writers. And furthermore, the
writers felt they had some contact with the labor movement which
they would not feel in a small town like Hollywood just writing there.
There was a general attitude of interest in social questions, questions such as the Spanish civil war, the anti-Nazi feeling, and things
like this that writers would normally be concerned with and that the
Communists were also concerned with, so it was not much of a trick
for Communists to be concerned with the things that most writers
were thinking about, and in some cases, I suppose-but this gets into
my own history.
The reason that it seemed reasonable to me to become a Communist

was that, being anti-Nazi and for Loyalist Spain, the Communists
seemed to be, both in the United States and in Europe, the most active
opponents of the Nazis and of Franco and Mussolini and Hitler at that
time, and it seemed a perfectly natural gesture to become a Communist.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

225

What we have subsequently learned about both Communists and
the whole international Communist question was certainly not apparent to me in those days, though I admit there were people in those
days who seemed to know something about it.
Mr. TAVENNER. To be a little more specific, were you acquainted
with Albert Maltz?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know of the instance in which he was re-

quired by Communist Party dictation to change his views and attitude in regard to his method of writing?
Mr. COuLINS. Albert Maltz wrote an article for the New Masses in
1945 or 1946, I think it was, in which he made a plea for more freedom

for left-wing and Communist writers.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was Albert Maltz a member of the Communist

Party to your knowledge ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.
Mr. COLLINs. He made a plea for more freedom for left-wing and

Communist writers, and for a more reasonable attitude toward their
work, and he cited certain examples, as, for example, Watch on the
Rhine, which I think was attacked at one period and praised at another,
and he claimed it must have been a good play at both times; and he

made what seemed to me at the time, and still does, a completely
reasonable plea as far as any creative work.
SI know he was attacked chiefly by the Daily Worker and also by

certain members of the national committee of the Communist Party.
There was also a meeting of writers in Hollywood-I think there were
several but I only attended the first-and at this meeting Samuel
Sillen came out from New York and led the discussion.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was the name of the person who came from

New York ?
Mr. COLLINS. Samuel Sillen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLINs. S-i-l-l-e-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I gather he was, although I don't know. He spoke

at this meeting, I presume, as a Communist. He led this discussion,
which was an attack on Maltz, and certain other people, particularly
certain men who apparently were not too concerned with creative
problems, were in the forefront of this attack on Maltz as being in-

correct, not understanding the class struggle, et cetera.
Mr. TAVENNER. May I interrupt you to read one thing Maltz stated,

which I believe was the subject of that controversy, and which I believe may clarify your answer somewhat.
Mr. COLLINS. 0. K.

Mr. TAVENNER. In this article Mr. Maltz stated:
I have come to believe that the accepted understanding of art as a weapon is
not a useful guide but a strait-jacket. I have felt this in my own work and
viewed it in the works of others. In order to write at all it has long since
become necessary for me to repudiate it and abandon it.

That is the article you are discussing?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. That, I presume, came out of Maltz' guts, since

it was something he had to do to write, as he says. There are men

226

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

who don't have that problem, and who are not so concerned with
writing as Maltz, and therefore these men find it easy to accept any
policy. Since' they don't really care about writing, they don t care
what they are told to do. These were in the forefront in the attack
on Maltz.

There were several other meetings, but I had had enough, and
subsequently Maltz changed his mind. He wrote another article repudiating what he had first said.
Mr. TAVENNER. I interrupted you at a time when you were speak-

ing of the representative from New York who came to address your
group. I do not know if you completed your testimony in regard to
that or not.
Mr. COLLNS. I don't remember what he said. I just remember the

general feeling, which was that this cry that Maltz had raised for
freedom-well, it gets to the question of what is freedom in writing,
and since I have a biased view on it, I don't think I should express

what Sillen said.
Mr. TAVENNER. Proceed.
Mr. COLLMUS. Maltz repudiated this first article, and whereas the

first article came out of his own conviction, the second article obviously came out of a rehash of other people's convictions.
That was the end, as far as I know, of the Maltz controversy,
although I presume after that there was a good deal of fear on the
part of Communist writers, especially those connected with things

officially Communist, of making a mistake such as Maltz had madeMr. TAVENNER. In other words, as a result of Communist Party dictation, he entirely reversed his stated views ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. He did it voluntarily.
Mr. TAVENNER. That was one specific instance, was it not, in which

the Communist Party could and was interested in using a writer of
prestige ?
Mr. COLLINS'. That is right. I guess you could call it that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall an instance in which a writer of a

history was required to revise his viewpoint with regard to his work?
Mr. CoLLINS. Well, you probably got that out of Maltz' article, in

which he mentions a friend, or at least a writer he knew, who had
to rewrite a book in order to meet the terms of Communist Party
policy. This was true, so far as I know, of John Howard Lawson
and his history book.

I remember that no sooner would Lawson get

a draft done than some new development in Communist Party policy
would occur and he would have to rewrite a part of it, or several
chapters of it, in order to make it conform to the new policy.

I think

this was true in Lawson's case.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you have any more specific information regard-

ing that instance ?
Mr. COLLNS. I was present at a meeting with Mr. Lawson and a

representative of the county at that time, Carl Winter.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was Carl Winter?
Mr. COLLINS. He was the county organizer in Los Angeles.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the Communist Party?

Mr. COLLINS. Of the Communist Party. And at that time-there

was a discussionMr. POTTER. Will you bring out the dates ?

Mr. TAVENNER. Yes.

What was the date of this instance?

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr.

COLLINS.

227

It is hard for me to localize it, because I have no

records. I think it was around 1943 or 1944, somewhere around there.
This discussion was not like the Maltz controversy, however. Maltz
was really hit over the head. The suggestions to John Howard
Lawson were suggestions which he was eager to accept.
Mr. TAVENNER. In referring again to this general proposition of

the purpose and aim of the Communist Party to use writers of prestige,
can you say to what extent the Communist Party, in that connection,
endeavored to control the organizations to which the writers belonged,
or to influence them ?
Mr. COLLINS. The word "influence" is a much better word than

"control" in most cases, because I don't think the Communists controlled any organization except maybe the Writers' Mobilization, toward the very end of its life when nobody belonged to it, that is,
nobody functioned in it for the Communists.
But we always tried to influence any organization to which we belonged, whether there was one Communist in it or a hundred, in that a
policy would be presented which the Commnunists believed of prime
importance.

As a rule, in my experience, as in the Screen Writers' Guild no policy
was suggested that the membership could not at least consider as
reasonable.
SThe only time this was done was during the strike period, when
the painters' union was on strike in 1945 or 1946. The Communist
Party had at one time said that we should go through the picket lines
because the Communist policy during the war was a no-strike policy,
and therefore we went through the picket lines.
Then when the war was over and the policy changed, we tried to
swing the trend around to supporting the secretaries and the painters
who were out on strike. We were not successful for the simple reason
the. writers did not understand why they could walk through the
picket lines in February, and not in June. They had a point there,
and they wouldn't go along with us.
Some would speak of the policy of supporting the strike even though
they knew it was unpopular, because they felt 10 years later the members would remember that they had said this and that perhaps they

were right, that time would prove they were right, and therefore they
would win support a decade hence that they didn't have at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. So that was an instance where the Communist

Party endeavored to control the writers through the Guild?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the word "control" stops me.
Mr. TAVENNER. Or to influence?
Mr. COLLINS. To influence I think is right; yes.
Mi. TAVENNER. Do you recall after 1947 the occasion of an election

within the guild when the so-called progressive slate was prepared
and again the Communist Party endeavored to influence the action of
the guild in a particular matter?

1r. COLLINS. Around the 1947-the 1947 elections were held in the

heat and passion of the former hearing, the hearing in 1947 of this
committee, and there was a great deal of feeling on both sides at that
time, and the progressive slate was defeated. And since that time, it is
probably true that no Communists have been on the board of the
Screen Writers' Guild.
81595-51-pt. 1-

12

228

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. TAVENNER. The progressive slate to which you have referred
was a slate composed of both Communists and non-Communist members?
Mr. COLINs. Yes. The Communists in any policy-or except perhaps very recently-would have the support of a great part or at
least a sizable portion of the membership.
Mr. TAVENNER. And without that support which they were able

to gain, the Communists wouldn't be able to accomplish much, would
they?
Mr. COLLINS. Or nothing. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. But that slate as supported by the Communists
was defeated ?
Mr. COLLNS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you recall any other instances when the

Communist Party used the Screen Writers' Guild for its purposes in
endeavoring to influence writers in Hollywood?
Mr. COLLNs. Well, there were two incidents that I remember.

One

was a matter of influence. The other was a matter of-it would have
to be termed something else. The first incident occurred right after
the Screen Writers' Guild had been reorganized. There were-I don't
know that there were any Communists on the board of the Screen
Writers' Guild after it was reorganized, but there were at least people
who were in favor of advanced policy in the Screen Writers' Guild or
a left-wing policy, and it looked very much as if these people would

be defeated in the election of 1937, I guess.
Now, I think that it's interesting here that the Communist Party
had done a really fist-rate job of setting up the Screen Writers' Guild,
and a very useful job, and must have been quite proud of it.

This

part of the coin looks pretty nice.
Now, on the other hand, this incident points out that if you believe

in the correctness of your cause, you will be willing to do almost
anything to win.
There was a caucus or a fraction meeting-a fraction is a Communist faction of the general whole; in this case the Screen Writers'
Guild whole-and in this caucus we discussed the fact that our opponents had more proxies than we did by far and perhaps would
swamp us. This looked like a very unfortunate situation.
Lester Cole had the notion of suggesting that the old board on which
we had at least some people who would listen to us should be reelected
by unanimous acclamation. So, at the proper point in the meeting,
when it really looked as if Johnny Gray, who was the right-wing
treasurer at that time and who held an enormous number of proxies,
with Maury Riskin, where it looked as if they were winning-they
were handing over so many proxies-someone, and I don't remember
who, got up and said, "Let's reelect the old board who served us so

well in this first year of our trouble by unanimous acclamation."
So, I rose to my feet, as did the others. We cheered and applauded.
Other people cheered and applauded, and the board was returned by
unanimous acclamation.
Mr. TAVENNER. All as a result of the plan and design of the Communist Party members ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. At the time I thought it was quite a shrewd

notion.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE 'INDUSTRY

229

Mr. TAVENNER. NOW, you refer to Lester ColeMr. COLLINs. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). As being one of the moving parties in

thatMr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Transaction.

Is Lester Cole known

to you to be a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state who were instrumental and active
in endeavoring to impart the Communist Party line to the guild with
reference to no strikes during the war period and strikes after the
war period to which you referred in your testimony a little while ago
who were members of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think actually that I have named all of them.

There was Lawson-John Howard Lawson, Lester Cole, Ring Lardner, and myself-and I think that in the main we carried on these
struggles. We also tried to keep the Writers' Mobilization goingtried to get the $10,000 that had been given yearlyMr. TAVENNER. I'll come to that in just a moment.

Now, were

there any others you can recall now who were active as Communist
Party members in the effort to impart the Communist Party views
with regard to strikes?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember particularly the meetings of the
board, you see, and on this, as I remmeber, I was there with John

Howard Lawson and Ring Lardner and Lester Cole.

Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I want to ask you at the present time to state

whether or not the Communist Party was interested in the organization to which you just referred-the Hollywood Writers' MobilizationMr. COLLINS. Well, yes.
SMr. TAVENNER (continuing). And how that occurred.

But before

doing so I believe you should tell us what the Hollywood Writers'
Mobilization was and what its purposes were.
Mr. COLLNS. I intended to.

The purpose of the Writers' Mobili-

zation was to help win the war. Every writer in Hollywood belonged
to it. It was an amalgamation of the Screen Writers' Guild, the Radio
Writers' Guild, and several other guilds in which either information

could be gathered or .writing could be done for the war. It was actu-

ally its sole purpose during the war years.
It turned out an enormous amount of material in terms-for the
USO, the Red Cross, for any war agency, the armed services, and so
on-of films, sketches, speeches, radio skits, everything for the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. And during that period of time there was really no

material or substantial divergence between the Communist Party
views in promoting the war effort and those of other persons?
Mr. COLLINS. None. No divergence. The Communists, because they

had been acquainted, because they had had a more international viewpoint perhaps than some of the other writers, were in a good position
to help in many cases where there were sketches that had to do with
our allies, Britain, China-under Chiang Kai-shek at that timeSoviet Russia, the underground movements, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, upon the termination-

230

COMMUNISM

IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. WooD. We will take a recess for 30 minutes in order to give the

members of the committee an opportunity to answer this call [Quorum
call on floor of the House]. We will reconvene in 30 minutes.
(Thereupon, at 11:10 a. m., the hearing was recessed until 11:55
a. m., at which time the following proceedings were had:)
Mr. WooD. The committee will be in order, please.

By virtue of the authority vested in me as chairman of this committee, I now set up a subcommittee composed of Messrs. Walter,
Doyle, Jackson, and Wood for the purpose of continuing this hearing,
and all four of those members are present.
You may proceed, Mr. Counsel.
Mr. TAVENNER. Mr. Collins, at the time of taking the recess, I was
asking you about the method used by the Communist Party to control
in certain instances or influence in certain instances writers in Hollywood through the guild, and you were at the beginning'of your testimony regarding the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization. You have already explained the purpose of that organization during the war
period. Now we have arrived at the termination of the war, so I
want to ask you whether there was any real purpose or whether the
purpose for which this organization was formed ended with the close
of the war.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, there was a difference of opinion on that. The
Screen Writers' Guild, most of the membership, felt that the purpose
of the organization had ended, and the Communist Party felt, I think,

that it could be useful in the postwar period.
Mr. TAVENNER. Useful to whom ?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, useful both I suppose to the party and its objectives and in the general-whatever the problems of the postwar
period were going to be, which at that time I think were not discernible, clearly discernible.
The mobilization had been supported by I think $10,000 a year from
the Screen Writers' Guild, plus money from the Community Chest or
the USO, and also money in smaller amounts from the other union
members of the mobilization. A fight developed over the continuation.
of this $10,000. As I remember, we-that is, the Communists-be--

lieved that the guild should continue to support it. There was a great
deal of opposition to this. And finally in a membership meeting themembers voted to discontinue the money for the mobilization.
Mr. TAVENNER. About how long did the Hollywood Writers'
Mobilization continue ?
Mr. CoLLINs. Well, that's hard-I don't remember exactly, but I'd
say it was about a year or a year and a half after the war.
Mr. TAVENNER. And during that period of time this contest or issue

was being fought out as to whether or not it should be continued ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, it continued for a while on the grant for that

year-for instance, in 1945.

Then I imagine in 1946 the question

came up again.
(Representative Harold H. Velde entered hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). And at this time I think it lived on a.

little bit longer after the $10,000 was withdrawn.

Mr. TAVENNER. Now, why was the Communist Party interested in

the continuation of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, it had become an excellent vehicle for the pres-

entation of material, political material, cultural material, and I think:

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

231

they felt it could probably be used for the same purposes in the post-

war period. The difference was, of course, that during the war every-one was in complete agreement, and after the war the fissures began

to develop internationally and also, therefore, in the mobilization, in
the guild. So, they couldn't-there was not the unanimity as to what
the mobilization should do, and a great many writers obviously were
just as happy to forget about it. They felt that it had finished its
purpose, and they didn't want to do anything with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there any project which the Communist

Party was particularly interested in which might be projected or put
into effect through the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the Communists were interested in any project

that was originated in the mobilization. I don't remember all those
projects. I think many of them never came to fruition. I remember
a great deal of discussion at the time about what the mobilization
should do, what its program should be for the future, and so on,
butMr. TAVENNER. Discusion among whom ?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember discussions with Jack Lawson on

this.
Mr. TAVENNER. IS Jack Lawson the same person as John Howard
Lawson?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, John Howard Lawson. But the content of these

discussions and what was arrived at I don't really recall.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were some projects?
Mr. COLLINS Well, there was a project that I remember very vaguely

,called Counterattack, which I think was an anticensorship, antiwell, I don't-I remember it but there again I don't remember the
content.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was that aimed in part at this committee, the

Committee on Un-American Activities ?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think it predated this committee.

It was

aimed at the-I suppose in a general sense, yes, it was aimed at this,
the kind of activity that the committee represents, that this committee
represents.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was that project a project that the Communist

Party was interested in ?

Mr. COLLINS. Of course they were interested in it; yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. And was the Communist Party responsible for the

projecting of that idea into the organization of Hollywood Writers'

Mobilization ?
Mr. COLuNS. Yes; I guess it was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, can you recall any other?
Mr. COLLINs. Well, there was a subcommittee I think or a committee which met with some of the physicists from California Tech
for the purpose of acquainting the public with the nature of atomic
energy and, you know, what the dangers were in the atomic bomb and
what kind of weapon it was, and so on.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was there set. up within the Hollywood
Writers' Mobilization what was known as the Atomic Energy Commission?
Mr. COLLINs. That might have been the name of it. There was
such a committee set up. It was to acquaint the-you see, the mobili-

232

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

zation had carried on various meetings all during the war with many
people. For instance, a physician came from Birmingham Hospital,
gave a seminar on the problems of the men at Birmingham.

And

there were seminars on many, many subjects in which people would
come from the outside and discuss them during the war, especially
relating to any war activity.
So, therefore, this seminar which was supposed to be set up on
atomic energy was in line with these previous seminars which had
been discussed, and there was such a committee set up with some
scientists from California Tech.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the Communist Party interested in that par-

ticular project?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, insofar as the Communist Party was interested

in the mobilization, it was interested in this project.
Mr. TAVENNER. What use did the Communist Party plan to make
of this particular group ? In what way did it expect to put this particular group to work or influence it to work?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think that the Communist Party was honestly

concerned with the question of peace, and since the Communist Party
members honestly believed that the danger to peace comes from the
United States and since the atom bomb was the United States weapon
primarily-certainly at that time-they felt that since the scientists
were also concerned with the terrible nature of the atom bomb that
there could be a natural union between the concern of the scientists
over the terror of the bomb, of its nature, of its misuse perhaps, and
the fear of the Communists of war at that time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, in what way did the Communists plan to

make use of that union of effort between scientists and the Hollywood
Writers' Mobilization
Mr. COLLINS. Well, the scientists had the knowledge concerning the
terror of the bomb, and they had the fear of it. But they didn't have

the know-how as far as getting it out to the public was concerned.
And the Writers' Mobilization did have that know-how. So, therefore,
it seemed like a natural union between the concerned scientists and
the experienced, in this case, publicists.
Mr. TAVENNER. Then, was it the interest and purpose of the Com-

munist Party to disseminate that information as fear information to
the American public?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, I think that's right. It was the normal conclu-

sion you could draw-that the scientists were fearful and could probably make, since they knew a lot about it-I think they still are fearful-could probably make other people fearful if they could get to

them, and the mobilization would get to them.
Mr.

TAVENNER.

And it was a part of the Communist Party plan to

disseminate that information to the public ?
Mr. COLuINs. Well, here again Iwas not responsible for formu-

lating the Communist Party plans in the sense that they were formulated undoubtedly, if they were, from another source, but as far as

I understood it I guess that's a reasonable presumption that they
were interested in- a certain amount of fear on the part of the people
and that they thought this was a reasonable project. And at that
time it's true I think, in the main, Communists were the center of the
mobilization after the war.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE. INDUSTRY

233

Mr. TAVENNER. You made reference to the holding of seminars.
Were seminars held on the subject of atomic energy ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, there was one. There may have been others but

I only remember one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did various scientists address the meeting?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. It was a broad meeting. I think that people

were invited as well as the mobilization people. Anyone could come
and probably did. And I remember Coinog, who was one of the
scientists whose name stuck in my head.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall the full name?

Mr. COLLINS. No. But, at any rate, he spoke as a physicist, and

he made particular care to mention when he would come to a certain
point that it was impossible to pursue it further because it was restricted. I had the feeling the scientists were very careful and very
conscientious men.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether the commission-first, of

all, were you a member of that commission ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether the commission endeavored

to assemble scientific information from the scientific departments of
various universitiesMr. COLLINS. Not to my knowledge.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). And other places ?
Mr. COLLINS. Not to my knowledge; no. No, I don't think-I doubt

that. I mean my feeling is that the most of the people who were
involved in it would not really believe that they could get anything
very useful in terms of information about atom science from a casual
acquaintance with a few scientists who came over with some concern.

There was a time at which the Federation of Atomic Scientists had
been set up and were publishing a magazine and were really concerned with getting their problem to the public, and so the idea they
could perhaps get writers to help them with speeches or perhaps make
a film or something like that was of great interest to the scientists.
But I really don't believe that anyone of my acquaintance was naive
enough to believe that these scientists would divulge anything, that
as writers we could influence them on the basis of meeting with them
two or three times.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, aside from the question of influencing the

scientists in any manner, did they assemble, to your knowledge, any
scientific information relating to the atomic bomb ?

Mr. COLLINs. Well, they might have, but it would have been like

the Smyth report or whatever it's called. You know. That was
fairly-that anyone could pick up. I doubt if they went beyond
that, althought I don't even remember that. I suppose if a man
wanted to find out something about it he would have read what was
available. But the real thing is, as far as we were concerned in terms
of our program, we didn't really have to know much about atomic
energy in terms of, you know, how a bomb is made. All we had to do
was to pursue the policy that the atom bomb was a dangerous weapon,
which you can certainly write about without having any inside information as to how a bomb is made. All you have to know about is
Hiroshima and so on, and you can do a pretty good job.

234

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know what disposition was made of any

material or information that was obtained as a result of the seminars
or as a result of scientific persons furnishing information to the group ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. We were going to write a series of radio pro-

grams dealing with atomic energy on a kind of creative literary basis.
But, as I say, those programs, as I remember them-I don't remember
a couple of them-didn't really deal with any scientific aspects of
atomic energy.
Mr. TAVENNER. They just dealt with the terror aspect of the bomb?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I remember one of them was about-one of them
dealt with a man who has the bomb in a suitcase, similar to this British
film.

I suppose you could call that terror, which it was.

And one

of them dealt with-it was called "Happy Birthday, Dear Earth
Star," which was about some people on another planet who have gone
through this before and who watch the earth join-you know-the
other stars.
Mr. TAVENNER. As a result of the atomic bomb explosion?
Mr. COLLINS. As a result of atomic energy; that's right.

So, you see, in order to do this you need perhaps some creativity
and imagination, but you don't really need much information about
the atom bomb.
Now, I never knew of any assemblage of material. I mean I can't
say the fact there wasn't any, because I don't know, you know. But it

certainly was outside of my purview.
Mr. TAVENNER. Earlier in your testimony you stated that another

reason why the Communist Party was interested in organizing communism within Hollywood was the possibility of influencing films.
Now, as a practical matter, was that possible of accomplishment?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, not to any-no. It was possible of accomplish-

ment only in terms of the whole tendency of the country, so I think,
as I said before, if the proper presentation, let's say, of a Negro on the

screen has been accomplished since then and not by Communists, but
certainly Communists who would have been handed a Negro character would have tried to give him a certain dignity let's say. In this
sense they would have affected the content of films.
But, since the basic policy isn't in the hands of the writer or the
director but in the hands of the owners of the studio, who are not at all
interested in this propaganda, the chances of any real presentation of
Communist material or what is termed Communist material in terms

of Communist Party or foreign policy are I think extremely unlikely.
(Representative Bernard W. Kearney entered hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). Now, at one time I think that Communist

writers felt that the inclusion of several progressive lines might be
a happy thing, but finally it was realized that this didn't mean any-

thing to anybody unless you had the code book with you that told you
what those lines mearit, so this policy was dropped and was considered
no longer reasonable.
I think I discussed the fact that there would be an attempt made
not to have anti-Communist or anti-Soviet films made in this early
period. I'm not talking about now, because I don't know anything
was
about the present time. I remember one example of, I think -it
Lester Cole wrote a film about a boys' school, and at that time there
was a statement of Dolores Ibarruri, who was called "La Passionara"

in Spain. She had said a famous

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

235

Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the title, please?

Mr. COLLINS. "La Passionara"? I don't know. I would rather not
attempt it.
Mr. TAVENNER. All right.

Mr. COLLINS. At any rate, she had said, and it was a famous slogan
during the Spanish Civil War, "I would rather die on my feet than
live on my knees." And Cole I think in some speech of one of the
coaches in the school had him give this line. Now, I felt, and I think
most people did, that this wasn't-that you could scarcely call this
propaganda. I mean it was just I think he was perhaps pleased with
the line, but it really didn't mean anything.
I think a better example of the difficulty--of the way in which
a picture is handled is Song of Russia about which there has been
a great deal of discussion. Do you want me to discuss that?
Mr. TAVENNER. Did you have any connection with the Song of
Russia ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. Paul Jarrico and I wrote it or did the screen
play on it, that is.
Mr. TAVENNER. Yes; we would like to hear the incident.
Mr. COLLINS. Well----

Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name "Jarrico" ?
Mr. COLLINS. J-a-r-r-i-c-o. We had this picture, Thousands Oheer,
for M-G-M, and M-G-M had bought a story about Russia called
"Scorched Earth," and the same producer was making this Scorched.
Earth film as had made Thousands Cheer. They were both musicals.
And we got the assignment on Song of Russia, wrote a first draft of
it, corrected the first draft on the basis of-as any first draft is corrected, on the basis of what could be helped in it from a writing
standpoint. And then the script with which apparently the studio
was pleased was sent to David Selznick so he could borrow-so Metro
could borrow Ingrid Bergman.
Selznick objected to the script on the basis it was too favorable to
Soviet Russia, and there was a conference held with Mr. Mayer, Mr.
Mankiewicz and Mr. Katz, Gregory Ratoff who was the director-Mr. TAVENNER. Now, will you begin the list of those names over
again?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. Louis B. Mayer and Joseph Mankiewicz.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLLINS. NO. You can find that. Sam Katz. And Gregory
Ratoff. The producer, Joe Pasternak. Mr. Jarrico and myself.

Mr. TAVENNER. About when was this ?

Mr. COLLINS. 1942. Somewhere around there. 1943. I don't
know exactly. At any rate, Mr. Mayer said-I'm not quoting him
directly-he didn't understand what the problem was, that he certainly didn't want-that he wanted to make a picture about Russia
because Russia was in the news, that they had made pictures about
England, France, and so on, and that it seemed reasonable to make a
picture about Russia, but, on the other hand, he didn't want to make
any Communists-and that if the picture couldn't be made-so if it
was going to make trouble he'd just as soon not make it.
I think, as I remember, that the picture was saved by Joe Mankiewicz who said there was no reason why it couldn't be made andc
made without any trouble. I think that was the complete feeling at

236

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

the time, because actually in 1943 what Song of Russia said about
Russia was far less glowing than what Winston Churchill was saying
or Douglas MacArthur or President Roosevelt or General Eisenhower
or anybody else. I mean this was the period in which Russia was a
great country.
So that the picture actually in those terms was pretty lukewarm
compared to the statements, to the feeling of the time. However, it
was decided that there were certain things such as the collective farms
that should be omitted. Now, of course, this is really kind of a ticklish
point, because if you show the farmers on collective farms you're in
trouble, but, on the other hand, if you show that they own individual
farms of this nature then you're in trouble, too.

So we decided, for

better or worse, not to mention what kind of farms these were. And
then we took out words like "community" and did a general job of
cleaning it up on this level.

We did, in short, what we were instructed to do on the film, and no

one suspected when it came out-it seemed rather innocuous-that it

would ever-you know, that 5 years later anyone would ever remember it.

But, nevertheless, there was a complete discussion as far as its
content was concerned, and it was felt that in view of the times there
was-the basic part of the picture was that this Russian girl who
represented the Russian people was patriotic and believed in her
country and was set against the Nazis, and that she and the American
had the common purpose which was to defeat the Nazis and do the
best they could each for their own land, which at the time was an
extremely reasonable position and was pleased, as I say, by everyone
present.
I doubt if any picture could be made without the front office
O. K.'ing it, and this would mean that it would be-especially nowadays but I think certainly even then-viewed pretty carefully.
A great many things that seem in retrospect to be left wing were
really part and parcel of the times, and this was certainly one of them.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you identify Paul Jarrico more definitely for

us?

How long had you known him?

Mr. COLLINS. About 5 years.
Mr. TAVENNER. How closely had he been associated with you in
your work during that period of 5 years ?
Mr. CoIrs. Well, we first started working together I think in

1940, and we sold a story to M-G-M and then one to Universal.
Mr. TAVENNER. HOW many screen plays did he work on with you ?
Mr. COLLINS. Three.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was the writing of this screenplay influenced by

the membership of yourself and Jarrico in the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I suppose it could have been to some degree, in

that we probably knew more about the country than one would know
if you had never read anything about it or looked at anything about it.
We had seen Soviet films and read material about the Soviet Union,
and I imagine we had a certain amount of knowledge about it.
Nothing first-hand, but at least second- or third-hand. But in terms
of what we said in the picture I doubt if it had anything to do with

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

237

our being Communists except that we were pleased with it. We were
pleased with the assignment.
But at that time we were-as I said.before--we would have been
pleased with a picture on the resistance movement in Europe; We
would have been pleased with anything of that nature that we felt
would help the war. And we certainly felt that this picture would.
And also we believed, as I think many, many millions of people
hoped, that the relations between the United States and Russia would
be friendly and that this couldn't hurt it.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, the individuals you have mentioned as repre-

senting the moving-picture industry who took part in those discussions, will you state what positions they had in industry ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, Mr. Mayer was theMr. TAVENNER. And whether or not any of them were members of

the Communist Party to your knowledge.
Mr. COLLINS. Well, Mr. Mayer to my knowledge is not a member

of the Communist Party, and he was the boss of the studio. Sam
Katz was the executive in charge of a number of producers, of which
Pasternak was one. I would say that he in my knowledge was not a
member of the Communist Party. And Mr. Joe Mankiewicz was, I
suppose, one of the brightest boys at the studio, and he was not a
member of the party. And Gregory Ratoff is a White Russian, as I
understand it, and consequently I would presume he would not be a

member of the party. So that outside of Mr. Jarrico and myself, I
would say that there were no other Communists present at this meeting.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were there instances that came to your attention when the Communist Party was interested around the other way,
interested in checking the production of plays which it considered to
be anti-Communist?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, no; I don't know of anything like that in my

experience.

The only picture that we were concerned with in check-

ing my memory was I think a picture called Tennessee Johnson.
Wasn't that the name of it? I don't know Tennessee Johnson-it had

a very biased, from our point of view, picture of Thaddeus Stevens.
(Representative John S. Wood left the hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, was protest made by the Communist Party to

the production of the picture, in which I believe you were probably
one of'the protesters ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that the Communist Party nationally may

have done something about it as far as the press was concerned, and
I think that we tried to persuade the studio that this picture was a

distortion of history; yes, but that's the only instance I know of. It
wasn't very effective, either. I think the picture was made precisely
as written.

Mr. TAVENNER. Now, in order to influence by propaganda any
screenplay, you would have to be-successful in putting the plan over

on not one but more than one responsible representative of the industry, wouldn't you ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER. Well, about how many representatives of industry

would be involved in passing upon a screen play which was written?

238

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. COLuNs. Well, you would have to pass firstly your own producer, and then the chances are the director would have to go along
with it, and then the front office, and at different studios the front
offices are set up differently. Now, at M-G-M in those days it really
had to go through four or five people. Some studios might be run
on a more singlehanded basis, as, for instance, Twentieth-Century
Fox. I imagine if you could get it past Mr. Zanuck you would be in
business.
But also then you have to get some actor, the star, who is very important, who will also have to say 0. K. Now, Bob Taylor as it was, I
think, objected to Song of Russia and to line in it, and so on, and, as
I remember, they had to be in some cases changed so that you would
have to get by a great number of people in order to make the picture.
But the point is, you see, that after all the Communists don't try to
get in-what is called Communist propagana-I don't think Communists would try to get in, because they would know beforehand
that it wasn't successful. If a Communist, as I say, writes a Negro
with some dignity, the chances are he will get that, you know-in the
main, that might get through, because no one would see, would feel
that that was necessarily Communist propaganda. If he writes a picture about the resistance movement, let's say, during the war, in which
somebody in the resistance movement is a hero, and there were such
films, no one would object to that, because they wouldn't feel that it
was necessarily any more Communist than their own position.
So that in terms of-you know perfectly well that if all the Communists got together now and wrote a pro-Soviet film it wouldn't be made.
So I doubt if Communists are spending much time working on this
kind of project. I mean they have a certain amount of reality as
regards this. You can only do what's possible within the framework
of the period and what other people feel, andMr. TAVENNER. Now, you have stated that another purpose of the
Communist Party in organizing communism in Hollywood was from
the financial viewpoint. What did you mean when you referred to
that?
Mr. COLLNS. Well, I think that just in terms of dues or assessments rather that there was at one time during the war period when
there were I think more Communists than at any other time-I mean
as far as this section was concerned-a fair amount of money received
from these people. I don't remember. I think the assessment when
I was last in the party was about 4 percent.
Mr. TAVENNER. Four percent of what?
Mr. COLLINs. Of your salary after the agent's deduction. You
deduct the agent's commission and then you take 4 percent of that.
That is as I remember it.
Mr. VELDE. What agent?
Mr. COLLINS. The professional agent's commission. Four percent
probably amounted to in those days quite a good deal of money.
Then also I think in terms of certain other things, certain other
specific projects, that people would contribute money, and since there
was money in this community, and that in that sense it was useful.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you state to the committee what was the extent
of your contributions to the Communist Party while you were a member of the party-say monthly or weekly ?

COMMUNISM

iN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

239

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't know exactly what it was. The assessments, I think I probably paid them up to, except toward the end,

pretty regularly. I don't know.

I suppose that during the period

I was at Metro, which was the war years, it was around $185 a month,

something like that.
Mr. TAVENNER. You paid $185 a month?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, around that.
Mr. TAVENNER. Over how long a period of time was that ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't know. Three or four years 1 guess.
Maybe more.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did other persons who were members of the Com-

munist Party to your knowledge pay on a like proportion with you'.
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, yes. That was understood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, those payments which you made, were they the

ordinary dues that you were expected to pay, or did youMr. COLLINS. No, no. The dues, I don't remember what they were
but they were nominal. This was an asessment above your dues based
on the fact that-on the idea that-since you made a higher salary
than the average party member in the country you could afford to pay
more money. So this assessment was in addition to the dues, which,
as I say, were nominal, whatever they were.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO whom were those dues paid? How were they

paid ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, they were paid to the financial secretary of the
branch.
Mr. TAVENNER. Of the branch of which you were a member ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. It's on the honor system in a sense because no
records are kept. You'd pay what you believed you owed.
Mr. TAVENNER. But the financial secretary would have an idea of
how much you owed ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; they certainly would. He or she would.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the financial secretary to whom you made

payments ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't remember any time except at the very
beginning when I was the financial secretary, the first group. The

only one I remember, I don't know. I don't really remember who
used to get the money, because, you see, the group didn't remain constant. There were probably in my time quite a few groups. And this
is a job that nobody particularly wanted, so thatMr. TAVENNER. Well, when you were a financial secretary, when

you first entered the party, what disposition did you make of the funds
which you received as the financial secretary ?
Mr. COLLINS. I turned them over to Madelaine Ruthven.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the last name?
Mr. COLLINS. R-u-t-h-v-e-n.
Mr. TAVENNER. Ruthven?
Mr. COLLINS Right.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her official position?

Mr. COLLINS. She was the organizational secretary I think.
Mr. TAVENNER. I have asked several witnesses, including V. J.

Jerome, who appeared before this committee a few weeks ago, whether
or not it was true that the national organization of the Communist

Party refused to permit these dues to be paid or these assessments

240

COMMUNISM IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

to be paid to the Communist Party of the State of California and
from a certain date directed that those payments be made directly to
the national organization of the Communist Party of the United
States in New York due to the fact that it was such a tremendously
large figure into which these assessments ran. Is that correct or nott
Mr.

COLLINS.

Well, I don't know much about that. I remember

that the-I never had much to do with it, but I remember that there
was a split between the national office, the State, county, and the section itself, in which I think the national office got the greatest amount..
But what the split was or precisely what it was I wouldn't know, because it really wasn't in my field.

Mr. VELDE. The greatest amount of what?

Dues?

Or your spe-

cial assessments?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, no. The special assessments.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did the special asessments go directly to the na-

tional office?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I don't think in toto. I think that the section

in Hollywood broke off, you know, what was supposed to be the percentage that was supposed to be sent and sent the largest sum directly,

as I said, to the national office. But here-I didn't send it. I thinkyou know, this isn't really-this is my understanding, but I certainly

wouldn't be held to it, because I never .hadreally anything to do with it.
Mr. TAVENNER. The payments were not made directly to the na--

tional office, but throughMr. COLLINS. Through this section.
Mr. TAVENNER. Through the section official who had charge of the-

particular matter?
Mr. COLLINS. Uh huh. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. I failed to ask you a little while ago, in speaking-

of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization, who was the organizer of
it or its first president. Let us put it that way.
Mr. COLLINS. Bob Rossen was the first president.
Mr. TAVENNER. Bob who?

Mr. COLLINS. He was the first chairman. Robert Rossen.
Mr. TAVENNER. Robert Rossen? R-o-s-s-e-n?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. I don't know who organized it.

I don't know-

it was necessary to organize it in the sense that it was a normal wartime set-up.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know whether or not he was a member of

the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. He was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how he is employed now?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think he is a producer at Columbia.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know where he is ?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I talked to him about a picture about 2 months
ago. He was in Hollywood for a while. I think he had been in Europe

and then he had been in Mexico making The Brave Bulls. He told
me in 1947 that he had sent a note to Harry Cohn-I guess it was

1948-that he had sent a letter to Harry Cohn saying he was not a.
Communist, by which I presume that he has disaffiliated himself.
Mr. TAVENNER. TO Harry-?
Mr. COLLINS. Harry Cohn.
Mr. TAVENNER. K-o-h-n or C-o-h-n?
Mr. COLLINS. C-o-h-n.

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

241

Mr. TAVENNER. C-o-h-n?
Mr. COLLINS. Who was the president, I think, of Columbia Pic-

tures. I gather he's disaffiliated himself, but that is as much as I
know. At the time, at any rate, he was in the party, and he was the
chairman.
Mr. TAVENNER. How do you know he was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I had meetings with him. I had a meeting at

his house-well, one or several at his house.
Mr. TAVENNER. Can you give the committee any idea of the num-

ber of Communist Party meetings that you attended at which Robert
Rossen was present?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, in order to say that a man was a Communist I

would have to remember out of my 5,000 hours precisely what the
meeting was about, that it was a Communist meetings, what room it
was held in, and who was present, you know, so that I would remember specific-I could only-I can't remember how many. I remember
sitting in his house, that it was a Communist meeting, and that Rossen
was present.
Unless I can remember the place, the nature of the meeting-because, after all, these 5,000 hours were mainly not Communist meetings-I just don't see that it's possible for me to say that he was a Communist, because you know I may have some feeling about it but I don't
think that that warrants this kind of label. So that I remember, how-.
ever, specifically in this case seeing him.
Mr. TAVENNER. In this case you do remember specifically ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Who was the secretary of the Hollywood Writers

Mobilization when it was first formed ?

Mr. COLmIN. The executive secretary was Pauline Lauber.
Mr. TAVENNER. L-a-u-b-e-r. Is that the spelling?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER. IS she also known by the name of Pauline Lauber

Finn?

Mr. CorLINS. Yes; I think so.

Mr. TAVENNER. F-i-n-n?
(Mr. Collins nodding affirmatively.),
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you recall discussing among members of the

Communist Party any arrearage in dues of Robert Rossen ?
Mr. COLLNS. Oh, I think he was in arrears; yes, sir.
Mr. TAVENNER. You think he was in arrears?

Mr. COLINs. Yes; I think so.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you remember the extent to which Robert Rossen

was in arrears in the payment of his assessments ?

Mr. COLLINS. It was a considerable amount of money, but I couldn't

tell exactly. It was a handy sum.
Mr. VELDE. Could you put any limits on that in dollars and cents ?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, it was in the lower registers of four figures I

would say. One of the tests of being a good Communist was to pay
your dues so that there must have been some criticism of Rossen.

242

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Mr. TAVENNER. Can you name other persons who were connected
with the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization who were known to you to
be members of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, John Howard Lawson was one of the prime
movers. I don't offhand-No, I don't remember anybody else.
Mr. KEARNEY. IS he doing any writing in Hollywood at the present

time?

Mr. COLLINS. I doubt that very much.
Mr. KEARNEY. Are any of the 10 convicted Hollywood writers doing

any writing at the present time that you know of?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, no. I think these men were just recently re-

leased, just in this past week, from jail, and, you know, I doubt that
they are doing any writing in Hollywood.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was there any other plan for raising funds by the
Communist Party used in Hollywood to your knowledge besides the

payment of dues and special assessments ?
Mr. COLLINS. I think that people were asked, who might have been

sympathetic but not so sympathetic that they were party members.
They might have been asked for contributions. I have heard of such
things, although I don't know from my own experience.
(Representative Donald L. Jackson left hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINS (continuing). I don't know from my own experience,
but I heard that people were asked if they would contribute money
even if they were not in, and I imagine that in the resistance movement
days that people would have contributed money who were really not

particularly sympathetic with the aims of communism at all but who
admired the struggle that the Communists were making in the resistance movement against Nazi Germany.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were benefits held to which actors and writers were
invited ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, but these were not Communist Party benefits. I

mean they might have been benefits for Loyalist Spain or benefits for
any cause which a great many people supported.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, let us go back for a few moments to your first
membership in the Communist Party. I believe you stated that in

1938Mr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). You united with the party.
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER. Now, were you assigned to a cell, a particular cell?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Will you describe to the committee the organiza-

tional set-up as you found it to be ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a group has a chairman and a literature director
who's responsible for selling the innumerable pamphlets, books, and
so on, on the subject and is supposed to give some little resume of what

the most recent material is and to sell it; the membership director,
whose job is not only what kind of work the membership is doing in
the party or in organizations, various outside organizations, but also
he's mainly concerned with recruiting, with the organizer of the
branch or the chairman of the branch.
And then the dues. The financial director. This would be called
the executive of the branch. They would prepare an agenda for the

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

243

meeting which would take up perhaps some general political education
and in some cases a specific question which might have to do with the
work, the mass organization work, of one or more of the members.
(Representative John S. Wood returned to hearing room.)
Mr. COLLINs (continuing). These meetings are, as a rule, fairly long

and not terribly interesting. And they, you know, are very mild in
terms of content. They would discuss day-to-day questions, you know,
whatever those happened to be, the political questions of the day.
Now, for instance, I imagine that today, like everybody else in
America, a Communist branch would be discussing the Truman-MacArthur dispute. This would be the topic of discussion or one of the
topics of discussion. It might not be discussed precisely from the
perspective of the rest of the country, but it would be discussed.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you mean by that it would be discussed from

the standpoint of the interest of the Communist PartyMr. COLLINS. And of the Soviet Union.
Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). And of the Soviet Union ?

(Mr. Collins nodding affirmatively.)
Mr. TAVENNER. At the meetings did you also discuss the ways and

means of carrying into effect the influence which you desired to be
exerted upon the various groups that you were members of, such as
the Writers' Guild ?
Mr. COLLINS. No.

The chances are this wouldn't be discussed in a

branch meeting; that this would only be discussed in the prewar years
in a fraction meeting, and in the war years, if at all, in a progressive
caucus-that is, a group of Communists and many non-Communists.
During the war years, during the so-called Browder period, the
Communists tried not to have separate meetings. They-I mean of
a mass organization. They tried to do away with the fractions on
the theory that there were no interests of the mass organization that
were in any way different from the Communists' and, therefore, anything that could be discussed in a Communist meeting could be discussed outside of it.
With the end of the Browder period, I think this changed, and what
is going on now I wouldn't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you tell the committee who were members of

this first group to which you were assigned as far as you can recall?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I have named almost all the members of this
group so far. There was Ring Lardner, Budd Schulberg, and Paul
Jarrico. This was the basis of the group. There were other people,
but I don't know that I ever saw them subsequently, and consequently
I don't'really remember them.
Mr. TAVENNER. How many of those persons did you collect dues
and assessments from ?
Mr. COLLINS. Oh, I guess all of them, but at that time the assess-

ments amounted to quite-didn't amount to a great deal of money.
We were all young writers and all beginning, and it was a very small

amount of money, as I remember, a month. About a hundred dollars,
I think; a little over or a little under.
Mr. TAVENNER. How long did you remain in that particular group
or cell ?
(Representative Francis E. Walter left the hearing room.)
81595-51-pt. 1---13

244

COMMUNISM

IN

MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. COLLINS. Well, I find that hard to answer, because I don't
remember, because it could have been a year and a half or a year,
somewhere around in there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you then transferred or assigned to some other
group ?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee about that.
Mr. COLLINS. It was another group, and some of the same people

came along, and I can't remember much about it. It met at the house
of a man called Martin Berkeley who was a screen writer at the time
and who I think subsequently left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Martin Berkeley?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. B-e-r-k-e-1-e-y. And I remember from that
group only Sam Ornitz, Samuel Ornitz, O-r-n-i-t-z.
Mr. TAVENNER. Samuel Ornitz was one of the 10 who appeared be-

fore this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.

Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any other branches or units

of the Communist Party?

Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes, I must have been assigned to several subsequently, but I don't really remember the dates or I mean the-You
know, it's not only a great many years ago but a great many other
meetings were going on, and I don't'remember the precise dates or
what the groups were.
There was a group I belonged to somewhere in there, and I remember

a couple of fresh faces, but that's about all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were the names of the new faces ?
Mr. COLLIN.

Well, a man called Herbert Blach6 and his wife,

B-l-a-c-h-g. I think he had been a silent movie actor.
And a woman called Nora Hallgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could you spell the last name?

I don't know.

Mr. COLLIuN. H-a-l-l-g-r-e-n. And I understood she had once
worked for Lenin or been his secretary or something.

Mr. TAVENNER. In Russia?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
(Representative Francis E. Walter returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how she is presently employed ?
Mr. COLLINS. No, I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was she employed at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know that she was. I think that her husband

worked somewhere, but he wasn't-I don't recall him as in the group.,
See, after all, the Communist Party, for reasons that are now evident,
was not anxious to have everybody know who everybody else was,
and there was, in the efforts of security, a certain amount of holding
the same people together, especially when the work-as for instance,
my work-was in specific mass organizations. I mean in the Screen
Writers' Guild, in the mobilization. So, therefore, I would know
only except by hearsay the Communists in those particular organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I have been asking you about the names of

various Communists here. I understand your reply is that in each
instance you know of your own personal knowledge that, they were
members of the Communist Party and you're not relying upon hearsay
testimony.

244

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. COLrLNS. Well, I find that hard to answer, because I don't
remember, because it could have been a year and a half or a year,
somewhere around in there.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you then transferred or assigned to some other
group?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes, I was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Tell the committee about that.
Mr. COLLINS. It was another group, and some of the same people
came along, and I can't remember much about it. It met at the house
of a man called Martin Berkeley who was a screen writer at the time
and who I think subsequently left.
Mr. TAVENNER. Martin Berkeley?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes. B-e-r-k-e-l-e-y. And I remember from that
group only Sam Ornitz, Samuel Ornitz, O-r-n-i-t-z.
Mr. TAVENNER. Samuel Ornitz was one of the 10 who appeared before this committee in 1947 ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's right.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you assigned to any other branches or units
of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, yes, I must have been assigned to several subsequently, but I don't really remember the dates or I mean the-You
know, it's not only a great many years ago but a great many other
meetings were going on, and I don't-remember the precise dates or
what the groups were.
There was a group I belonged to somewhere in there, and I remember
a couple of fresh faces, but that's about all.
Mr. TAVENNER. Well, what were the names of the new faces?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, a man called Herbert Blach6 and his wife,
B-l-a-c-h-e. I think he had been a silent movie actor. I don't know.
And a woman called Nora Hallgren.
Mr. TAVENNER. Could you spell the last name ?
Mr. COLuiNs. H-a-l-l-g-r-e-n. And I understood she had once
worked for Lenin or been his secretary or something.
Mr. TAVENNER. In Russia?
Mr. COLLINs. Yes.
(Representative Francis E. Walter returned to hearing room.)
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know how she is presently employed ?
Mr. COLLINS. NO, I don't.
Mr. TAVENNER. How was she employed at that time ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know that she was. I think that her husband
worked somewhere, but he wasn't-I don't recall him as in the group.,
See, after all, the Communist Party, for reasons that are now evident,
was not anxious to have everybody know who everybody else was,
and there was, in the efforts of security, a certain amount of holding
the same people together, especially when the work-as for instance,
my work-was in specific mass organizations. I mean in the Screen
Writers' Guild, in the mobilization. So, therefore, I would know
only except by hearsay the Communists in those particular organizations.
Mr. TAVENNER. Now, I have been asking you about the names of
various Communists here. I understand your reply is that in each
instance you know of your own personal knowledge that, they were
members of the Communist Party and you're not relying upon hearsay
testimony.

246

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. VELDE. IS that her first name or last name ?
Mr. COLLINS. That's a first name.

Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of
Abe Polonsky ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVNNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Commu-

nist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. What connection did he have with the Hollywood
Writers' Mobilization, if any ?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, similar to Lawson's connection, which is that
Polonsky, like Lawson, is a man of undeniable intellectual capacity,
is very sharp, quite talented, and he had a certain influence in'the
mobilization on this level. He had had, I think, as I remember, he
had been overseas in the war, and I can't tell precisely when he came
home, so that, if he was in the mobilization, it must have been in its
latter years.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission
of the Hollywood Writers' Mobilization?
Mr. COLLINS. He could have been. I don't remember exactly.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with John Bright, B-r-i-g-h-t?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member'of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Now I only remember him way back in the late thirties.
He was a member in those days. But what's happened to him in the
last decade I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. Millard Lampell, L-a-m-p-e-l-1?
Mr. COLLINS. I can't say I was ever in a meeting with Lampell.
Mr. TAVENNER. Gertrude Purcell was a member of the board of the
Screen Writers' Guild in 1938 and 1939. Were you acquainted with
her?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I knew her.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was she a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I didn't really-I didn't recall that. She might have
been, but, as I say, I have got to remember the precise room and place
and person.
Mr. TAVENNER. Gordon Kahn, K-a-h-nMr. COLLINS. I remember-

Mr. TAVENNER (continuing). Was a member of the board.
Mr. COLLINS. I remember Kahn was in.
Mr. TAVENNER. He was a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Have you mentioned in the course of your testimony the name of Leonardo Bercovici?
Mr. COLLINS. No. I worked with Bercovici on a film that was supposed to be about the San Francisco conference for the OWI.
Mr. TAVENNER. Will you spell the name, please ?
Mr. COLLINS. B-e-r-c-o-v-i-c-i.

Mr. TAVENNER. Was he known to you to be a member of the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. At that time he was.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with a person by the name of
Dorothy Tree Uris?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; but I never knew her in the party ..

247

COMMUNISM IN MOTION-PICTURE INDUSTRY

Mr. TAVENNER. You did not?
Mr. COLLINS. No.

Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with an individual by the

name of Sam Moore?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; but I never knew him in the party.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with an individual by the

name of Elizabeth Leech or Elizabeth Leech Glenn ?

Mr. COLLINS. Yes. She held an official position in the Communist

Party and was also connected with the Hollywood section at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did she hold any position in Hollywood as far as

you know other than as a functionary of the Communist Party?

Mr. COLLINS. She may have worked at a studio. I don't know.
Mr. TAVENNER. What was her position in the Communist Party?
Mr. COLLINS. Well, I think she took Madelaine Ruthven's job after

Ruthven left, but I'm-she had some such job.
Mr. TAVENNER. By that you mean she collected dues or-Mr. COLLINS. Well, she was a secretary.
Mr. TAVENNER. A secretary?
Mr. COLLINS. I think she was an open Communist.
Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with her husband, Charles
Glenn?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes.

Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party ?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; I think he was an open Communist also.
Mr. TAVENNER. Did he serve as a functionary of the Communist

Party?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't know.

I think he served as some kind of

.functionary in the Hollywood section at one time.
Mr. TAVENNER. Do you know an individual by the name of Margaret
Potts ?
Mr. COLLINS. I don't think so..

Mr. TAVENNER. Were you acquainted with Frank Tuttle?
Mr. COLLINS. Yes; years ago.
Mr. TAVENNER. Was he a member of the Communist Party?

Tut-

tle? T-u-t-t-l-e?
Mr. COLmNs. He was in the early days. I went to a meetingseveral-at his house. I haven't seen him in a decade either. I don't

know what happened to him.

Mr. TAVENNER. Did you ever have occasion to meet William

Schneiderman ?

Mr. COLLINS. No. I saw him, but I never met him.
Mr. TAVENNER. Where did you see William Schneiderman?
Mr. COLLINS. Well,'at one of these State conventions of the party

he made a 4-hour speech, I remember.

Mr. TAVENNER. I believe, Mr. Chairman, this is a good place for

a break.

Mr. WOOD. The committee will take a recess now until 3 o'clock.

(Thereupon, at 1:10 p. m., the hearing was recessed to reconvene

at 3 p. m. this date.)

AFTERNOON SESSION

(The hearing was resumed at 2:15 p. m., the members of the committee present 'being Representatives John S. Wood (chairman),

248

COMMUNISM

IN

MOTION-PICTURE

INDUSTRY

Francis E. Walter, Morgan M. Moulder, Clyde Doyle, Harold H.
Velde, Bernard W. Kearney, Donald L. Jackson, and Charles E.
Potter.)
TESTIMONY OF RICHARD J. COLLINS-Resumed
